Adonis, Claire mused. Who the hell was Adonis anyway? She laughed to
herself, here she was in history class and actually thinking about history.
At the front of the room her teacher, Mr. Whitmore droned on about some
war. Greeks, Persians? It was hard to keep track. The next test was not for
two weeks, so no use learning it now.  She was good at memorizing names and
dates. She would do fine.

She imagined Marcus as Adonis even though she had little idea who Adonis
actually was, beyond that Derek, Whitmore's first name and a more apt
moniker in her mind, had droned on about him earlier in class. He was a God
of some sort.  Beauty? She had seen Marcus on Saturday on the soccer field
playing with a few other kids from school.  Shirtless, his chest was
chiseled, at least that is how it would have been described in the sort of
novels she liked to read.  Like it was cut from stone, she thought. She
could imagine herself with chisel in hand, chipping away at a six foot
block of marble.  Slowly crafting Marcus starting with his smooth waves of
hard muscle.

Derek was now gesturing wildly. Something about Persia had got him all
excited, apparently the Persians were going to win this round. Why a war
won over 2000 years ago would excite anyone was beyond her. That his
excitement seemed genuine only made his performance all the more
depressing. 

A lot of kids liked Whitmore, or so they said. He was tall but not
particularly good looking. No one had used a chisel to carve his chest, she
thought as she watched his button down shirt billow about desperately in
search of purchase. At least he still had most of his hair. But he had that
air of confidence that her classmates naively took as evidence of something
to be confident about. She had not yet met an adult that was not a dope, a
bore or both and Whitmore was no exception.

Mr. Whitmore turned and began writing on the board so Claire wrote whatever
he wrote in her notebook. Getting an A in this class would be easy. She had
convinced her parents to let her take Classical History or The Fall of the
Greek Empire, a pretentious sub-title that always made her think
"Newsflash, Derek, you're a high school teacher."

At least she had gotten out of taking AP US History or APUSH as the class
was affectionately known for all the pushy little children who spent their
four years at high school vying for first place behind overt remonstrations
of friendship. It was a cruel game perpetrated by adults, Claire thought,
but for what reason, she could not imagine.

She noticed Becky Hanson sitting front and center, her eyes glued to
Whitmore and crudely advertising sex. There was not much imagination in
that girl, Claire thought but she would get an A as well. We all played to
our strengths. It had even gotten her Marcus...well for just one weekend,
she smirked.

And there was Justin sitting right behind her, equally smitten with Mr.
Whitmore but not equally endowed by God. His mouth hung agape, within which
Claire could glimpse a glistening pool on the verge of breach. His best
hand was pity, which worked with some teachers, but not Whitmore, whose
pride demanded talent...or perhaps the pretense of sex. Not that Whitmore
would ever venture beyond his imagination, a dark well that Claire
preferred not to fathom.

What strengths did she have, she wondered? She was smarter than all the
other little shits in this school for one. Even smarter than Austin who sat
next to her. Austin who she sometimes cheated off of just because he was
too oblivious to cover his test paper. Austin the human calculator who was
taking this class only because he already completed APUSH in his junior
year. Austin the only child, with his bush of blond hair who seemed nothing
more than a parental science fair project. He just hadn't realized it yet.

She looked at the clock, fifteen minutes till the bell. Damn and I still
have eighteen more students to go. She almost snorted a laugh and quickly
glanced at Mr. Derek to make sure he had not seen her. She knew laughter
was a universal challenge to authority and she was not looking for a fight.
She had even a heard story about German guards firing into a British prison
of war latrine just because they thought they heard laughter. 

Marcus raised his hand. Whitmore turned to call on him a little too
quickly. She felt Whitmore wanted his attention as much he wanted it or as
much as she wanted it. 
