From his office window, James watched as a woman across the street yelled
at a man sitting on a bench. He couldn't hear her yell, but he could see
her waving her arms and he could see the tension in her body.  The man
looked up at her, but did not seem all that concerned. 

The drama across the street was nothing new. James had seen it play out
everyday since he moved into his office four years ago. The cast of
characters varied throughout the year, though there were a few regulars.
Their numbers increased in the summer months and dwindled in the winter. He
had heard that there was a methadone clinic nearby by way of an explanation
for their presence.

They were mostly white, but of assorted shapes, sizes, ages and genders.
They would shout, laugh, gesture, dance, cajole, negotiate, argue, yell and
sometimes even fight, but never to any great effect.  They wore jackets,
pants, sundresses and skirts, and held hand bags and cell phones just like
everyone else, but they were also different, though it was hard to put your
finger on exactly why. 

One difference was that their lives were not punctuated by the usual
changes of venue associated with work day, evening and weekend. Their lives
just rolled along continuously in this one location each day from morning
to night like actors on a perpetual stage. What amazed James most was that
no matter when he looked out the window they seemed to be engaged in
conversations and often ones of apparently vital importance. What could
they possibly be talking about thought James. James could barely think of
anything interesting to talk about with his wife after being away at work
for the whole day.

As James looked out his window and watched, his thoughts drifted to his
son. For the past year, he had looked out his window and thought about his
son. For the past year, he has also done so little work, that he felt he
should have been fired or, at the very least, moved to a desk without a
window. He just assumed that his manager felt sorry for him and that when
she weighed the emotional cost of firing him against monitary cost of his
job he came out slightly ahead. He wasn't planning to argue with her on
this point.

Someone had once told him that after a year, you either move on or you
don't.  James was not moving on. A year ago, James's son was hit by
car and killed as he was walking home from school. The driver was not
drunk or senile, just careless and probably texting, though this was
never proven. 

That evening as he brushed his teeth, he could hear the traffic outside his
house through the open windows. When he moved to his house ten years ago,
the street was mostly quiet. Now there always seemed to be cars on the
street with actual traffic in mornings and evenings.  Where had all these
cars come from he wondered and where were they all going?

James hated cars. He hated them because of what they had done to Tim. He
hated their noise. He hated their size. He hated how they lined every
street of his city replacing humans as the most dominate feature of the
urban landscape. He hated how they cut his city up into tiny pieces like
islands surrounded by dangerous shark infested waters.

The next morning, as he stood waiting to crosss the cross his street to
catch the bus to work it seemed to take even longer than usual to find a
break in the traffic. When the street was finally clear he started across,
but just then a car came out from a side street. It headed down the
opposite side of the street in his direction. Instead of walking back to
the sidewalk to wait again, he stopped where he was in the lane and waited
for the car to pass in front of him.  But the car was followed by another
and now there was now a car coming toward him in the lane where he was
standing. He didn't move.  He just stood there and waited.  The car coming
toward him stopped and within a short time more cars backed up behind it.
Since there were still cars traveling on the opposite side of the street,
he just stood there.  

After about twenty seconds, one of the cars began to honk, but James did
not move. He began to feel as though he couldn't move as though he needed
to be there, as though he were now a fixture in the pavement.  Even when
there was break in the traffic on the other side of the street, he just
stood there. A few cars tried to race around him when it was clear. James
just stood there looking straight ahead. And as he stood there he started
to smile to himself. He smiled at how fragile the whole system suddenly
seemed. He smiled at how one man standing in one lane of a street could, in
only a few minutes, cause cars to back up farther then he could see.

He also thought about his neighbors watching him. He thought about the people
in the cars watching him. He wondered if anyone he knew could see him standing
there in the street. He wondered what they would think. He figured they would
just think he was crazy. Not a bad assumption he thought.

A few minutes later he heard a siren. He was certain they were coming to
remove him from the street and he felt some relief that there was now a
definite resolution to his situation one from which he seemed unable to
extracate himself. He almost smiled as he noticed the difficultly the
police car had getting through the traffic, but thought it best not to
betray any emotion.

The police car stopped near him and the officers both got out. One started to
direct traffic around him and the other came over to ask if he was okay. He
said he was and the officer asked if he would mind moving back to the side
walk. James agreed and walked off the street escorted by the officer.

The officer asked him why he was standing in the street and he said he
didn't know. He said he was tired and confused. His wife and daughter
where inside the house. He could see them watching him, afraid to come out.  

The officer did not feel the need to site James for any violation, but
walked him back to his house where his wife Brenda came out to meet them on
the steps. The officer suggested to Brenda that she take James to the
emergency room so that he could be evaluated. She agreed and they went back
inside.

Brenda was worried. James said that he was just trying to cross the street,
and got stuck halfway, not sure what to do. He said he hadn't very slept
well for the past few nights. It was the kind of explanation that only made
sense if you wanted it to make sense. Brenda looked at him without saying
anything. James said he was fine and headed off to work again, but agreed
to walk down to the intersection and cross at the crosswalk.

That evening when he got home from work the house felt even quiter than
usual.  Brenda was in the kitchen making dinner. His daughter had gone to a
friend's house for the night. His relationship with his daughter had become
strained over the last year or was it years.  He could not remember. He
could remember that there was a time when she would run to hug him as soon
as he came in the door.  He had heard that this change was just typical
adolescent behavior, but he could not help thinking that it was somehow his
fault.

He talked with his wife about his day, but not about the morning. She had
some news about her sister's divorce and her plans to move back to the city
to be near them. After dinner he said he wanted to go for a bike ride. She
let him go. She had been more than accomodating over the past year as he
tried to find his way back to a normal life. Though he wondered how long
this would last.

It was the beginning of summer and the days were long. He walked his bike
to the end of the driveway and instead of trying to cross the traffic, he
set off in its flow. He had only recently taken up riding a bike again. The
last time he owned a bike was in collge. He still felt nervous and awkward.
He was never sure where he belonged between the traffic and parked cars.
Never really feeling safe, he rode slowly and carefully and followed the
newly painted bike lanes farther into the city. 

As he heading into the city the buildings became closer together and
larger. There was more traffic. He was now surrounded by more cars, trucks
and buses and the traffic patterns became more complicated with different
lanes for turning and going straight. Complicated rules that were designed
exclusively for car traffic. 

It was getting late and he was starting to head back home. Behind him he
began to hear people shouting, whooping and ringing bells. He could tell
they were on bikes because the noise was quickly closing in on him. Then
they were all around him. They were dressed in clothing that was, mutted,
freyed and studded with metal. Complete arms were exposed and some
including tatoos. They had their hair cut short, rough and geometric. They
leaned forward on their bikes, arms tense and ready for action. They seemed
to be intentionally keeping pace with him.  A few smiled at him as if
inviting him to join their fun.

James felt self-consious, but he also found he was no longer worried about
traffic or parked cars. Within their rolling shell he had drifted farther
out into the lane away from the parked cars but but still felt safe from
traffic.  As they approached a traffic light the group stopped, though some
continued to ride in small circles as they waited for the light to change.
They were loud. They wanted to be seen. They wanted to be heard.  They were
challenging the world around them and within this clearly defined front he
felt calm.

As they waited for the light to change, the car directly behind them began
to honk its horn aggresivly. The light was still red. The group began to
focus its attention on this car.  Answering each honk with shouts, yells
and their own bells. Finally, the driver leaned out of his window and
yelled, "Get out of the road."

As the light turned green, most of the group moved on but the five bikes
that had been circling continued to circle in front of the car. James
stayed with them standing over his bike in the lane and in front of the car
and looked ahead. This time he was not alone. The car gunned its engine and
honked and then pushed forward into one of bikes knocking rider off and
damaging the bike.  The rider quickly jumped up, picked up his bike and
threw it at the front window of the car cracking the windsheild. He and
second rider were quickly at the drivers side of the car. One of them
reached in and opened the door and grabbed the driver.

The other bikers continued to ride but now in circles around the car, their
two friends and the driver. James just stood over his bike but was now
looking back at the scene. 

The two men pulled the driver from his seat. A woman who had been sitting
beside him screamed. Once out of the car, they were shouting at driver and
pushing him back and forth between them. They stopped him as he tried to
run. Then one grabbed him from behind while the and the other punched him
in the chest and in the face. The sound was nothing like James had ever
heard before. 

Just then they began to hear the wail of a siren in the distance. One of
the bikers said, "Come on Jason, lets go." Another said, "Jay, lets get out
of here." The man holding the driver dropped him on the pavement near the
car and got on his bike. The other man whose bike had been damaged by the
car walked over to James and pushed him to the ground. He picked up James's
bike and rode off with the other four.

When James stood up a woman was yelling at him. The driver of the car was
lying on the ground. He was not moving. The woman from the car was next to
him and crying.  People where gathering. James noticed that at the scene of
an accident an audience forms and actors emerge taking on roles necessary
to fill out the scene. The woman yelling at him. A young man consoling the
woman from the car. Another man and woman attending to the driver. An older
man trying to keep the crowd back.

James decided that it was time to leave and turned to make his way through
the small crowd in which he now found himself. The woman continued to shout
at him but remained where she was, seemingly unable to or afraid to leave
her place. The crowd made way for his exit uncertain if they should detain
him, uncertain if they should commit to any greater role than onlooker in
the scene that was unfolding before them.

James was born.

James slowly began his long walk home and slowly the scene behind him faded
into the general wash of the city. He was in no hurry to go anywhere, but
was glad to at least have a destination. The night was quiet.  He had
scraped his hand and torn his shirt when he fell to the ground and there
was bike grease on his pants leg, but at night these sorts of things were
not easy to discern and to distinguish him from anyone else on the street.
As he walked, he thought about the events of his long day. 

As he approached his house he noticed a police car parked in his driveway.
The lights in his house were on though it was far past midnight. He
panicked. He had not thought much about the fate of the driver since he
left the scene. He had mixed feelings about what had happened, but he
figured that he would be alright. Didn't people who got punched just get up
and shake it off. He did not have much experience with these sorts of
things. But now he thought about him lying there very still. A deep sort of
stillness that seemed unnatural for an animate object. His head started to
swim.

This was not how he saw himself nor how he wanted to see himself. So far,
his world had been simple with a clearly defined good and a clearly defined
bad. He wanted to be the good guy or, at least, not the bad guy. And now
someone had died or might have died and he might be at fault or certainly
involved. How could they have found him so quickly? He could tell them that
it was not his fault. He had done nothing wrong. He did not even know the
people who did it. They would have to believe him.  But what if was at
fault for helping them commit the crime. And who were these people? If he
gave them away, what might happen to him? He did not want to deal with any
of this. He wanted to keep walking. 

He imagined himself helping people against bad guys not letting them get
hurt by bad guys. But who was the bad guy? The driver or the biker? 	

The thought of any sort of trial, prison, even an investigation was more
than he could handel.  

And so he kept walking past his house but now he had no idea where he was
going. Someone might have died, but he could no longer think about that. He
just needed to move on.

Inside his house, the same officer who had been there in the morning was
saying to his wife that in order to even file a missing person report, he
would to have been missing for 24 hours or more. He had only come by the
house again, since he had been there this morning and was worried about her
husband. He promised he would keep a look out and file the report if he did
not return in 24 hours. 

James now needed only to stay alive and remain hidden. These tasks had
always been fairly simple. Staying alive only required that he continue to
follow his conventional course of life which resulted for more resources
than were necessary for basic food and shelter. Staying hidden was also the
natural result of following the same course of conventionality.

Though he was now on a new course, one in which it was not clear to him how
to obtain basic food and shelter and one by its very non-conventional
natural was not conducive to staying out of site. 

That night he slept in the wooded section of a park. He did not sleep well
and woke up with the sun. He had thought about taking a bus to another city
where no one would know him, but that felt even more terrifying that
staying in his own city. He liked his city and it was the one remaining
sense of the familiar and so he clung to it.


As he walked he
felt free. He had suddenly slipped out of the constraints of life. He was
free to chart a new course though one that possed significant challenges.
He would need to sleep and to eat. His first plan was to withdraw as much
money as he could from his bank account. He knew this would pinpoint his
location, but 

His first plan was to find a place to sleep. He thought about where people
sleep outside in the city at night. Fortunately it was warm. He had seen
people sleeping under bridges and in the alcoves of subway stations or bus
stops, but he wanted a place where he would not be seen. He was excited for
the first time. He felt alive.




