When the world was still separated by oceans.

In every transmission there is a ratio of noise to signal. Texting attends
to the noise and not the signal. Yes, something is accomplished. Noise is
attended to and reduced, but with no regard for the signal. Something is
accomplished but it is of no value. The problems of noise are tiny in
amplitude but furious in frequency cause those that attend to noise to be
so consumed with their task that they can pay no attention to the signal to
which the noise is attached. Where as those attending to the signal are
hardly tasked with their responsibility. 

A woman who begins all her requests with "If someone would like to go do
something that she does not want to do and no one would want to do, than
please feel free."

The primary value of words is not that they can help us express what is in
our head, it is that they can helps understand what is in our head.

Nick turned back to James. "Draw a line." Nick pointed to a jar the
contained some pens. On the table was a note pad. James obliged. "Draw
another one." James drew another line next to the first one. "Which one is
better? Which one is more perfect?" he asked. James hesitated a moment and
then said that he thought his second line was a little straighter than the
first. "Now look at the horizontal lines on the paper next to yours. Which
one is more perfect?" "Do you mean which of the horizontal lines or
compared to my lines?" "Either." "Well the horizontal lines are more
perfect as compared to mine but between them they are identical." "But what
do your lines have that these lines do not?" asked Nick "I don't
understand." said James.

"Any machine can produce a line far straighter than the steadiest hand and
so similar from one to the next that even the most discerning eye can make
out no distinction. But this all that a machine can do. These lines are, at
best, a starting point, a sterile and effete prototype for any line crafted
by the human hand. You are correct that they are perfect. But perfection is
only a starting point." 


After dinner James cleared the table while Sarah rinsed dishes before
putting them into the dishwasher. The radio remained on. The host continued
to review the days events from around the world ensuring that no one
thought in James or Sarah's head could take root for long before being
interrupted by a reporters voice explaining the misdeeds of a politician
they had never heard of from a country they could not find on a map.

That night he woke in the dark. For the past week, he had been waking in
the dark, sometimes hours before sunrise. Often he could just fall back
into sleep, but some nights he lay awake for hours having strayed too far
across the barrier of consciousness to easily find his way back. He got up
and went to the bathroom. Standing by the open window in the early morning
there was no longer the sound of cars passing his house, but the quiet
street only revealed the subtle but constant drone of more distant traffic.
Listening carefully, he tried make out the distinguishing characteristics
of a heavy truck downshifting or a motorcycle revving its high RPM engine,
but the noise from the distant vehicles just merged into a single never
ending tone.

These monosylabic creatures whose only cry is one that claims me me me.

He saw a squirrel outside his window eating a pear. Squirrels did not have
to worry about their diet or what they ate. It was as if perfection was
staring at us every day and we refused to see it. It seemed so obvious that
he wondered if he was really the only person who did not see it. Maybe this
was all just a game waiting for him to realize.

The appeared weak and unbalanced, generations removed from the demands of
the feral plain.

Why did anyone who aspired to any sort of intellectual status feel guilty
about this box. They would deny watching it as if they honestly believed
this. The whole country had moved into a sense of denial as if it were an
epidemic. But had it always been this way? Did people always feel a
conflict between their actual lives and their perceived lives. Was modern
life just filled with more guilty pleasures. 


Their bodies lopsided and limp, the product of generations of Darwinian
variations un-tempered by the demands of the hunter and hunted. 

"Because our cities have become infested with giant metal creatures,
creatures so insidious that they have co-opted us to participate in our own
destruction." 

The gun toting wack job who wishes for Armageddon to bring some meaning
to his life.

She never entered a house quietly. Never just came in a put her things away
and went about her business. Immediately upon entering she would shout
Hello, anyone home.

He watched his cat clean himself. The same routine each day. The cat ate,
sleep and chased wild animals. The routine never varied. Nor did the
routine of his parents or grandparents. In fact, you could go back 3000
years and you would find cats behaving just as they did today. 

Having no previous buffer for these sorts of emotions, she was now
completely overwhelmed.

Siting on the bus he is relaxed while others are anxious to get to their
destination he is hoping that the time will not pass too quickly.

The towns that even as they built them and designed them and created roads
to reach them and enable more of them, they knew even then that they
themselves would never live in them. Never could live in them. Found the
thought of living in them repulsive. So why were they surprised when a
whole generation of people who had lived in them also felt the same way.
The only surprise should have been that it took them so long.  

After his one great painting he could never make anything else that
garnered much interest. His one work hung in the national gallery next to
well known masters, but people could never remember his name.

Ill formed masses of flesh each possessing the standard number of arms,
legs and toes, but shaped in such a way to appear as if Darwinism had
finally been rendered mute by availability of cheap goods to the point that
survival depended only on ones ability to ambulate oneself across a parking
lot to the nearest vendor of Federally approved consumables. 

There is no long term payoff in short term efficiency.

Why did anyone who aspired to any sort of intellectual status feel guilty
about this box. They would deny watching it as if they honestly believed
this. The whole country had moved into a sense of denial as if it were an
epidemic. But had it always been this way? Did people always feel a
conflict between their actual lives and their perceived lives. Was modern
life just filled with more guilty pleasures. 

Even the dog ignores the television. The dogs life seems changed little
since his domestication. In the modern world his freedom is more restricted
but his interaction with the world remains the same.  He sleeps. He eats.
He sleeps without regard for modern light. Still finding his rythm of the
sun. Television sets have not effect on the dog. He rides in cars, but
without intention or car. It is not a great machine of conveyance, but
simply a place to be like any other. He is equally oblivious to his own
mortality yet still shares our instinct for survival. 

We would attend lectures at a local university. The professors rarely
minded the five extra students in their class more than confrontation.
While Dad sometimes just listened, more often than not he would start
asking questions and move the sleepy students into debate. Once sitting in
the back of the room. The professor was engaged in a lecture about
Taylorism. The students sat some slumped in their chairs doodling in their
notebooks, some taking notes, some staring past the professor their mind
working through some unrelated problem. Without waiting for a pause in the
professors lecture, Dad asked "What are the benefits of efficiency?" The
professor stopped unused to interruption. He looked at Dad and seemed about
to ask his name, but at that point Dad rose from his seat, the professor,
responded, "Well they should be self evident."  "How efficient is this?" he
pointed around the room at the students "The seem hardly the most effective
way to deliver information." "Look here" he took a notebook from one of the
students "It appears your lecture has inspired a rather naughty picture. If
that was the intention..well" 

We entered a corporate feeding station. Where people wore name tags. He
hated name tags. We walked right into the kitchen. No one cared because
they did had no personal interest. They were just placed there and told to
do their job. The cook staff spoke spanish and Dad immediately began
talking to them. We ate soup and bread. It was late and Dad said they all
wanted to go home from a long day so he instructed us to help clean so
everyone could go home early.

He watched a woman typing furiously on her phone. No sooner does some
nascent thought pop into her head, still wet from birth, with a no more
instinct than that necessary for blinking and breathing, than it is thrust
forth into oblivion screaming and gasping and dying. 

We stood watching a girls soccer game. We had been on our way to the store
and I am not sure why we stopped.  It was just one of those moments were we
all seemed to have the same thought at once. The girls on our side of the
field were from the local high school. We didn't say anything. Dad seemed
to be studing the game very carefully. The local team appeared to be
losing. 

Dad then turned to us and said, the problem is that they are not using
their hands. You see, each team is trying to move the ball into the other
team's goals, but if they just used their hands it would be so much easier.
Suddenly the game appeared as silly as a sack race with girls awkwardly
trying to 

Just as the ball came close to where we were standing, Dad ran onto the
field grabbed the ball with his hands and then started running toward the
opposing team's goal. Both referres were blowing their whistles and moving
toward him. The girls just stopped playing and stood staring at Dad as he
ran past them making his way to the goal.  As he flung the ball in the
goal, Michael and Wendy let out huge cheers and I joined in with them.  

Every little trival thought that enters one's head is immediately sent out
into the universe, ideas barely formed. The cost of transmission too easy.
The barrier too low. No need or time to sit with a thought and work it out.
No time to think at all. The cost of transmission so small that the merest
thought could be flung into the universe. Television as insidious as it
was, was at least created with some effort. Some work went into creating
the scripts. Some thought went into working with the actors, albeit for the
masses. But we had traded one medium curated for the masses with another
currated by the masses with no great improvement. No need for sustained
thought. No time for ideas to be born and die before reaching maturity. No
time for maturity at all. Sustained thinking was no longer necessary or
even possible. 

The streets were quiet. He walked in the early hours between good and bad,
when the bad had given up and gone to bed and the good were still waiting
for the dawn to start their day.

With no job and no money, he had not choice about his place in society.
With each niche there were requirements such as age, race and income.
Certain ones were only achieved by income. Some you just fell into by age
or social status. He could no more be a punk or valley girl. Though all of
these required some income, if only for the basic attire that the social
class expected. The status of homeless or transient required no capital of
any kind. In fact, it was the requirement. In that way it was a sort of
exclusive club. You could visit or pretend, but you could not truly belong
if you had capital assets. 

James was born in a small town in New Hampshire that had slowly made its
way from rural to suburban. He lived with his mother in a house that
belonged to the latter type and of no particular distinction. It resided
within a cluster of houses equally lacking in any sort of character,
houses that weren't designed so much as built. They served their purpose
as basic shelter including places for sleeping, eating and watching
television.

James was raised by his mother father who left the family when he was
two. If he existed at all it was in a sort of hazy, dream-like memory
that could not be distinguished from a photograph.



