Professor Zeretski stood in front of his audience in constant motion. His
well-worn tweed jacket one size too small. His hair attended to as an
afterthought. He looked every bit the mad scientist, a look that he either
cultivated or naturally found.

After only fifteen minutes into his presentation, Professor Zeretski had
filled most of the blackboard with equations and after completing each
equation he paused and tapped the board with his chalk as if to emphasize
that numbers, more than words, could be relied on to carry truth. But the
truth was that his latest discovery sounded outlandish, maybe too
outlandish, when described in plain English.

His audience, six men and one woman, were sitting around a long and
expensive conference table in a room far above the streets of Manhattan. On
the walls hung paintings of sailing yachts set in elegant wooden frames.
Each one hardly distinguishable from the next to the casual observer,
though car whose only purpose was to instill a sense of permanence.

Through the windows it was possible to see far below, people wrapped in
fall attire making their way silently and with haste toward another day of
work, but none of this had the attention of the people around the table. 

The blackboard, out of place in the room, had been brought in for
Zeretski's presentation. No one had spoken since he began his lecture, but
the patience of the men around the table was beginning to wear as they
started looking at each other with glances that confided how little they
understood of what he was saying.

The one woman in the room was the professor's lab assistant, Judith Kitts.
A woman in her early 30s who had worked for him since she was a teenager.
She was the reason he was here and arranging this meeting had not been
easy, but the professor needed money and these were the sort of people who
could give it to him. 

Finally, Mr. Jonson, one of the older gentlemen at the table, cleared his
throat and interrupting Zeretski said, "Professor, with the likely
exception of Ms. Kitts, we have only the vaguest notion of what you are
talking about. Do you think you could explain your latest discovery in
less..well...scientific terms?"

Professor Zeretski paused for a moment and stared out the window as if
something else had caught his attention. He then turned back to look at
Jonson and said, "I have discovered love." "Love?" said Jonson. "Love?"
thought Judith.  Well, at least he had their attention.

"My dear professor, I do hope you have not come here just to tell us that
you have fallen in love." "No, No" smiled the professor as if he were in on
the joke. "I have discovered the force of attraction between humans. Not
only have I discovered what causes this attraction. I know how to make it
happen."

"Are you saying you know how to make people fall in love?" Said Mr.
Franklin, who together with Jonson, directed the investment firm of
Franklin and Jonson.  "Not love precisely. I have discovered the force of
attraction that exists between people, what makes them close friends or
mortal enemies. Just like the fundamental forces of gravity or magnetism,
human attraction is a quantifiable force that can pull people together or
push them apart." 

"Maybe you can help Halpern here" said one of the younger men at the table,
gesturing toward the man sitting next to him. "He's been chatting up the
barmaid at Jakes Grill for weeks now and she still won't give him the time
of day."

"Then scientifically speaking, there is no attraction between them." said
Zeretski. "Oh, I wouldn't say that. Poor Halpern is half mad for the young
lady, and with good reason, I might add." Halpern tired to smile, but was
not entirely comfortable with this discussion of his personal life.

"No" responded the professor shaking his head. "Young Halpern is no more
attracted to the barmaid than this a wooden chair could feel an attraction
to the most powerful magnet on earth. The attraction between humans" he
continued, "behaves like any other force. It must be mutual."

Zeretski then lifted a glass of water off the table and held it above the
floor. "While it is easy imagine the massive Earth pulling the tiny glass,
it is harder to imagine the tiny glass pulling the massive Earth. But the
fact is that the attraction and between the two objects is the same."
Dropping the glass on the carpeted floor, he said, "The only reason the
Earth moves so little is simply its size."

As the glass lay on the floor, he addressed Halpern directly "You feel like
you are supposed to like this barmaid and so you invent an artificial
sense of attraction where none exists." The room was silent for a moment as
everyone around the table contemplated their own relationships with wives,
friends and family.

But was what they had discovered really love, thought Judith. It was not as
if the topic had never come up, but their discussions never got very far.
Their discovery easily and uncomfortably verged on the fantastic and
dicussions of love only made it feel more so. Besides neither of them were
any experts on the topic. What did she know about love anyway? Her
knowledge of the subject came mostly from novels, movies and the
confidences of her few friends. 

The conversation turned to the status of Zeretski's discovery, specifically
what proof he had for his claims. Zeretski confessed that, to date, his
only experiments had been with animals, to be precise two mice which he
revealed were named Harold and Helen. The names were Judith's suggetion,
taken from a novel she had been reading at the time and a suggestion she
now regretted.

The tone of the meeting shifted again with the gentlemen poking subtle fun
at the notion of two mice in love. Judith understood their skepticism, but
not their lack of respect for a man who had won the Nobel Prize for physics
at the age of 28. Men who had nothing to show for their work but their
money. 

Zeretski had submitted his first paper to the Journal of Physics when he
was only sixteen and a student at the University of Budapest.  Shortly
after, he was recruited to Princeton University where he completed his
Nobel prize winning work on electronic transfer, which had led to the low
cost electrification of cities and towns throughout the country.

By his mid-thirties, he was a well known as any major sports figure and a
highly prized guest at society events. His advise was sought by heads of
industry and even the President of the United States.

With substantial financial backing, he built a large laboratory in the
warehouse district of Manhattan with a staff which at its peak numbered 34.
Over time, his work produced some moderately successful discoveries, ones
that would have been the career cornerstone of an average inventor, but
nothing that would satisfy the great Zeretski, as he been referred to in
the papers and a title he showed no embarrasement in hearing.  

Zeretski wanted to press diamonds from coal, move matter through space, and
power cities with bolts of lightning, "harness the heavens themselves" as
he was quoted as saying. It was unclear what drove him as he had no serious
rivals in his field. It was clear that his failures to meet the goals he
publicly set for himself, far from driving him to lower his expectations
only heightend them.

When there was nothing substantial to show for his work, he took to giving
garish demonstrations that often included showers of sparks and ploums of
colorful smoke, and bordering on theater. Overtime, the newspapers began to
label him a mad scientist and he played the part well. And overtime, it
became unclear if Zeretski himself could distinguish what was real from
what was theater. It sometimes seemed that, as if in desperation, he
believed he might conjure real science from well crafted make believe. But
Judith was convinced that his most recent work... their work, was quite
real.

After the meeting, Jonson and Franklin met privately in Jonson's office.
This is where Jonson conducted most of his business and A room so
uncluttered that Franklin sometimes wondered what he did in here.  Books
always perfectly lined up in their wood paneled cases.  saw a piece of
paper on his desk as if he did not read or write, but worked entirely in
his mind and conveyed all his ideas efficient things got done.

"What do you think of Zeretski's claims?" asked Jonson. "It is either the
most important discovery of our century or just another one of his crackpot
ideas." said Franklin.  "Mice." Jonson said, mostly to himself as he leaned
back in his chair "What sort of proof are mice?" "If we could get a
scientist we trust to listen to his claims, we might be in a better
position to judge." said Franklin. "Not likely" said Jonson. "He is
completely paranoid. I guess I did not mention that he would only allow
members of the firm at the meeting." "Then what was he doing with all those
equations and scientific jargon in front of a group of bankers?" asked
Franklin. "Hard to say, but how else do you really explain his sort of
work?" 

"The question is, is it worth trying to find out more?" asked Franklin.  "I
say yes." said Jonson. "It won't cost that much and the potential is
enormous." "Should I call Mueller?" asked Franklin.  "I think so. Let's get
him started with the usual contract."

Stanley Mueller was listed under private detectives in the Yellow Pages
though mainly because there was no heading for criminal. To be fair, he did
investigative work, but his work often and intentionally crossed legal
boundaries. 

He was tough and could push people around, but he was also handsome and
equally comfortable using his looks to get what he wanted. He bore no
particular malice toward the world or anyone in it, he just liked to get
things done.

He had grown up in the city dropping out before he finished high school.
He moved from a life on the streets to his present occupation. His initial
employment had mostly been as a thug working for various mob bosses, but he
was smart and had a repuation for working discretely.  Through a series of
chance meetings had been introduced to a class of gentlemen though not
defined as criminals themselves were willing to employ his sort of help
once in a while. 

As a result, he made a decent living. In his mid-thirties, he lived alone
dating a series of women until each one realized that the present state of
Stanley Mueller would bare little difference to the future state of Stanley
Mueller. The only ticking clock he heard in his head was the one marching
him steadily through life.

After Stanley's meeting with Franklin and Jonson, he arrived back at his
apartment to find a note from his present girlfriend letting him know that
she was out for the afternoon, but would be back with dinner. Immediately,
he regretted giving her a key his apartment. He was getting soft in his old
age he chuckled to himself. He looked in his fridge for lunch, but there
were few reasonable candidates. He had to admit that having a regular and
decent meal might be a life improvement. 

He headed out to local diner and sat thinking about his new contract. It
seemed straight forward enough, find and copy information about an
invention that dealt with some sort of force that existed between humans.
The idea seemed kinda crazy, but who was he to judge. The hardest part
seemed to be how to find the specific information his clients needed, but
there had been a scientist at the meeting who had apparently worked with
Zeretski and let him know exactly what he should look for and a good idea
as to where to find it. Still, how would he be sure about what was
important and what was not? For now, he just had to figure out how to get
in to Zeretski's lab.

That evening after the meeting, Judith sat in the kitchen of the apartment
she shared with her mother reading the society section of the paper. Her
mother sat across from her and talked to her about her day which usually
included shopping and some complaint about the butcher or the baker or
someone who passed her too closely in the street, percieved daily slights
by people who barely noticed her existance. Judith responded with nods and
uhuhs which her mother took as confirmation of her sense of the world and
her place in it.

Judith wanted to be nothing like her mother.

Before falling asleep that night, she thought about the day and felt
optimistic. Though she could think of no part of the day that justified
this feeling and experience told her that optimism was often followed by
doubt. For the past few years (and maybe her whole life, she really could
not remember) her emotional state seemed to vacilate between these two
extremes. But instead of resulting in a zero sum, these contrasting forces
seemed to reinforce each other, always pushing her forward like the swing
of a pendelum drives the hand of a clock.

Two weeks after the meeting Judith was seated at the bar of the San Marco
where she went every Thursday evening to read a novel and have a meal. She
could not recall exactly when she began this routine, maybe a year ago. She
also not remember what promted her first visit except that she passed the
club on her way home from work and going out to a club in the evening
seemed like the kind of thing people did.

As she sat there, she was having a hard time focusing on her book. The last
few weeks at work had been particularly stressful for Judith. The mere
prospect of financial salvation cast a sharp contrast against the certainty
of their financial predicament making it all the less bearable. She could
not imagine her life without Zeretski and the lab, and so mostly, she tried
not to.

The San Marco was a small but lively place with a jazz band that played
Thursday through Sunday. The five-piece band played from a stage decorated
in a modestly tropical motif that seemed to be popular at the time. In
front of the band was a dance floor surrounded by intimate candle-lit
tables complete with well-dressed couples in neatly pressed attire that
seemed to shine and sparkle. The crowd talked, laughed, drank and smoked
and by early evening spilled onto the dance floor driven by a building
nervous tension and toward an impending sense of chaos held in check only
by the nearly constant rythmic structure of music.

Judith sat her usual spot at the end of the bar which was set against back
the wall of the club and separated from the tables by a row of booths. The
bar tender had gotten to know her, but mostly left her alone. It was a
place where Judith felt calm.

This evening the club felt more crowded than usual. A few minutes after she
sat down, the voice sitting next to her asked if he could buy her a drink.
She had taken to rebuffing these sorts of request. Mostly because she was
always disappointed with sorts of characters that washed up the barstool
next to her, too old, too shabby, too drunk.

Without looking up from her book she said "No thanks", and waited for the
bartender to find her. The man then asked her what she was reading. Barely
turning her head she named the title of the book and the author. He went on
to say that he had read another book by the same author and asked her if
she had read that one as well. She said she had. 

He then said, "I promise, I don't bite." Annoyed, she turned to find a
handsome smile and looking out of place in her small section of the bar.
For a moment she thought that maybe he was lost, mistakenly flung from the
crowd and not quite realizing where he had landed. 

She paused not sure what to say. Cute boys had talked with her before, but
only in high school and only to tease her. They would start to flirt with
her and than laugh out-loud joined by their friends. The humor captured in
the absurdity of the proposal. It was in this way that she learned her
place in the social order. A far more accurate reflection than any mirror
could provide.

But he was no high school student and there were no friends waiting by
his side for the joke to unfold. 

"So, do you always go to crowded bars to read a book." he asked. "Oh" she
laughed nervously. "I actually find it relaxing" she said having never
really considered her situation till this very moment. "Well, you should
try a boxing match, if you ever need a really good night's sleep." She
laughed again. "My name is Stanley" he said holding out his hand. He always
gave his real name. He found that false names were more of a potential
hazard and his friends knew to be discrete when running into him public. 

She wasn't that bad looking, he thought, though not someone he would ever
date. He was never quite sure why he found some women attractive and others
not attractive. He felt his standards pretty much followed the norm, though
he was sure someone would find her attractive, just not him. 

She asked him if he was here to meet someone and he said no that he just
came in to get a drink.

**
That evening she watched this man next to her both confident and handsome.
And though nothing in her previous experience justified this, she felt it
was the way it should be 

She asked him his thoughts about the war in europe. They had talked long
enough that he knew the right answer and gave it, but he felt America
should let the Europeans fight their own war. She responded

She played with her hair.
She was definitely nervous, though he tried to put her at ease. He asked
lots of questions and knew how to be a good listener. It was all too easy
since it was not a challenge.

That evening, she observed him in a way that she would never again. Not
able to take in the whole at once, she captured parts the slight hook in
his nose, a small dimple on his chin. These were the parts that she would
use to make up the whole and construct a image of him. Her own unique image
of him

He told her of his life growing up in New York. The both had not known
their fathers. She felt awkward. She felt nervous. She wanted to impress
him. She wanted him to like her. She wanted everyone to like her.

** 

When she got home her mother was asleep. She liked having the apartment to
herself. She sat at the kitchen table and opened the day's paper to the
society page. It was quiet. She could hear the tick of the kitchen clock.
Although it was late, she was not ready for sleep. She thought about
Stanley. She imagined introducing him to her mother. Her mother would be
jealous. She didn't care.

The next day she was late for work. When she arrived she found Zeretski at
his desk with his head in his hands, eyes closed. She knew this as his look
of deep concentration and she left him alone. Suddenly, he looked up at her
and asked, "Is it going to work?" "What?" she said, hoping that he was
referring to some small technical problem and not a more global sense of
pessimism that sometimes overcame him. She was relieved when he asked about
the viability of a protean catalyst that she had been working on. 

She wanted to talk to him about Stanley. She mentioned that she had met
someone. He looked her trying to comprehend what she said and then when
could not make sense of it he said, "What do you mean?" "I mean a man. A
man that I like."



She wanted to talk about
attractions and their theories since now she had an example. She tried to
ask him if he believed what he had said at the investment meeting. He said
"Oh, who knows. It seemed like the right thing to say at the time." 
It seemed effective and yet no one had called.

all we have are two mice in love he said. 

She wanted to talk to anyone about
Stanley. There was a woman in the lab who seemed attracted to him. She was
fired and then everyone was fired.

She met with a girl friend.



She loves him.

Stanley called her the next week to ask her out again. She said sure. 

She became obsessed. She had no previous experience to buffer her desire.
She wanted   


The next day work was difficult. Her mind was preoccupied with thoughts of
the previous evening. She wanted to tell someone. She wanted to tell
Zeretski, but that would be worse than telling her mom.

That evening he walked her home and said good bye at the entrance to her
building. They agreed that he could call her again. As she walked the three
flights to her apartment she felt powerful emotions swimming around in her
head. Having no previous experience to buffer these sorts of emotions she
was overwhelmed. There were no examples for her to draw on 

Like imps from the deep they grabbed her and pulled  her
this way and that and never sat still long enough for proper investigation.
And then there was science. 

She knew what she wanted. She wanted to hold him. She wanted to go with
him. She wanted to leave and never return to her apartment with her mother. 

"Love" she thought. She had looked at this from too many angles with not
enough information.

She was a scientist though under what pre-text, she had no degree, she had
never studied any science, though Zeretski never doubted her ablitlity. and
certainly others had made a name for themselves without. There work defined
pure love. 

What of love and what is real she thought? What of love is desire and what
of desire is real? This was not simply the existential reduction to
nothingness.  

According to their theories, there was pure and definable force of
attraction that existed humans, but was this therefore a pure love and
definable love? The pure attraction found in their work was not corrupted
by sound of one's voice, the shape of one's nose, or guilt. It transcended
religion and politics for even if there was a disagreement on this level
the attraction was still there. It could be measured and quantified. But
maybe the attraction they measured was so pure as to be boring, tasteless,
dull, persistent and obvious like taste distilled water. This was not the
sort of love described in novels or by her friends. That sort of love was
so impure that they seemed to be based on impurities and yet these
impurities contained no force that they could measure and yet they were
mistaken for love and desire as if fool's gold had become more precious
than the real thing. But maybe what they had found was pure love, but a
sort of love that has no value in the world of desire.  She wondered if she
had ever felt either.
	
A few days later, Stanley Mueller was seated in Johnson's office explaining
that he had met the girl, and expected that within the next couple of weeks
he would be able get inside the lab and have time to copy the relevant
documents. Johnson said there was no real rush and that he didn't care to
know the details, but just to let him know when he had the material.

The next few days were hard for Judith as she waited for him to call. She
was in love or head over heals in love as she described it to herself,
because there was no one else she felt comfortable confiding in, certainly
not Zaretski with whom she spent most of her time. In some ways the feeling
was awful, an aching and irrational desire. It made no sense on its face
and analying it did not seem to help.

It seemed to her to take far more than a few days for following Saturday to
arrive, Judith sat across from Stanley at an outdoor cafe.  She asked him
about his family and he told her a mix of truth and fiction.  Over the
years, he had gotten good at coming up with stories about himself that were
easily believable, but did not give away anything that could be easily
verified.  Relatives were all conveniently far away or deceased. 

For her part, she just wanted to keep the conversation going. Silence was
the one thing she had to avoid at all costs. Silence meant that she was not
interesting and she had to be interesting. So far it has not been a
problem with a wealth of untapped information, but the future worried her
and she had a hard time keeping all these thoughts out of her head.

At one point a friend of Stanely's passing the cafe stopped to say hello.
It was an ocupational hazard which came up once in a while since he had a
fairly large circle of friends in the city. Mostly they knew about his work
and were conscientiously discrete when running into him in public. It was
also why he always used his real name. The chance of someone looking him up
in the yellow pages seemed reasonably remote.

Stanely shifted the conversation to her work and mentioned that he had
always loved science and that as kid he had wanted to be a scientist, but
that he could not afford to go to college. He asked lots of questions.
When she finally told him that she worked for Zaretski he exclaimed that
Zaretski was the scientist he admired most as a kid and that he had read
two biographies about him. "You don't think it would be possible for me to
meet him do you?" He asked. She said he was pretty paranoid about visitors
but she would see what she could do. Already, she was dreading having to
ask him as it was the kind of thing he really hated. He would go out of his
way to put on a show for a audience of important people, but would have no
time for guy she met in a bar. He let it drop, but did say that he would be
happy just to see his lab.

Back at his apartment Stanely's girlfriend asked, "So, how was your date?"
her tone betrayed a hint of sarcasm and annoyance. She then added, "I wish
I could be one of your, what do you call them pawns, victims, than maybe I
could get you to take me out." "Okay, Okay he said, you knew this was part
of the deal when you met me" "I knew you were a private detective, but I
didn't know that included dating other women." she said. He knew she was
not really angry, just using this as a way to gain an advantage over him,
but it irked him just the same. "Do you like her?" she asked. "She seems
smart, I like that." He said. Iris, his girlfriend, had never gone to
college. Iris just looked at him betrying little emotion. "Okay" he said,
"We don't have a lot in common and I find her a little annoying." adding,
"She's kind of nervous all the time and seems like she is always trying to
say the right thing" He stopped short of saying, "You know how I find that
sort of thing annoying" feeling this might be cutting to close to the truth
about his own feelings toward Iris. 

Iris then smiled and asked, "Is she as good looking as me?" "No" he said
without hesitation. That always worked he thought. You could go on and on
about what kinds of things were important in relationships, but people were
fooling themselves if it ever can down to anything but good looks.

Judith spent the next week just making sure she ate enough. She was so
preoccupied with her thoughts of romance, she could barely remember to eat
and then when she remembered she was so nervous that rarely felt very
hungry.  She reviewed the past two dates in her mind over and over again,
trying to analyze what went wrong and what went right. She resisted
constant urges to call Stanely or write him a note just to say she was
thinking of him. She was planning to see him on Friday evening and had
forced herself to wait. 

She also had not ask Zaretski if Stanely could visit the lab. She wanted to
find a moment when his initial reaction would be anything but No. It was so
much harder to negotiate back from No, but no opportunity arose. 

On Friday they met in front of The Warren, a popular theater downtown.
Stanely had gotten them tickets to a hot new show that both he and Judith
were excited to see. Stanely's mood though was colored by an argument that
he had with his girlfriend just before the show. She had been particularly
peved that he was taking Judith out again on Friday night but mostly
because they were going to a new show that she had wanted to see as well
and she knew the tickets were hard to get. He could only tell her that this
was his job and that there was not much he could do about it. He did say
that he thought this might be the last date and then promised to get
tickets to the same show for Saturday night. How he was going to do this he
did not know and that he was even promising this sort of thing he felt was
a very bad sign.

After the show, they agreed to go out for drinks. On the way they talked
about the show. It was one of the newer sort of satorical musicals that had
become popular. One of the two leading men was protrayed as a bit of an
arrogant brutt and it was his gruff manner that got him in trouble in the
end. Judith felt it was a bit sterotypical but had felt that he had gotten
what he deserved.  Stanely did not feel this way at all She was quiet for a
moment making matters worse. This was just the sort of behavoir that he
could not stand. He changed the subject asking about her work. She
appreciated his interest and was about to respond just as they got to the
bar. Getting an idea in her head, she suddenly suggested that they go to
another bar that she had heard about recently. It took all of his effort to
supress a groan and make him think that he really was not cut out for this
line of work any more, and instead smiled and said sure. 

They began to walk in a direction that seemed to lead away from any of the
bars he knew. At first he wondered where she could possibly be taking him
and then he began to think that maybe this evening was going to work out
afterall. His mood improved and they talked about their weeks of which most
of what he said was completely made up.

When they arrived at the door of Zaretski's lab, she gave him a sly smile
and asked how he would like to go in and see the lab. He acted
appropriately surprised. The door was heavy with large metal rivits and
straps. It was battered and rough as the entrance to a meat locker or maybe
super hero hidout as protrayed in a popular comic book more likely. Above
the door was a single gas discharge light that gave a faint buzzing sound
and cast an uneartly white. Other than that there was not description of
what lay beyond. A man as famous as Zaretski did not need to advertise,
quite the opposite or so was the impression.

After leading him up a metal platform stairway with walls that had not been
repainted in years, they entered the first room which was long with lab
benches on either side. Mueller was impressed. The lab certainly lived up
to its reputation. There were glass cylinders with smoke pouring from them,
large metal columns emitting sparks, and various biological objects
suspended in sealed glass jars. Though many of the experiments gave the
impression that they had been running unattended for years.

She showed him where she had been working for the past few months on one
part of a much larger device. It made very little sense to him, but he
fiened interest notheless. What he really wanted to see was Zaretski's
study since this was where he was told he would find his most recent lab
book. He had worked out a hastely concieved plan to propose a toast to some
important event in their relationship for which he had brought a flask and
two small shot glasses. Into one he would place a micky that would put her
out for long enough for him to make copies of the documents. She was not
much of a drinker and he sure he could make a convincing arguement that she
had just passed out from the drink. But all this could wait, till his
request did not seem to pushy.

The whole time he felt as if she were leading him to a particular part of
the lab when she opened the doors onto what was, by far, the largest room
he had seen so far. Mueller saw a space over two stories high and wide
enough for a large carrosel and seemed to be mostly round in shape. Much of
the walls were covered in a maze of thick black electrical cable. Some of
the cables were as thick as his forearm. Distributed around the upper story
were what looked like gray electrical transformer boxes giving the
impression that whatever went on in here, it needed a lot of power. Much of
the room was empty with the exception of the middle of the room was a large
apparatus that appeared to be the focal point of all the machinery that
surrounded them. The machine extended about half way down from the ceiling
and stopped. Below it was a platform that extened up about foot from the
floor leaving a space only seven feet high between.

There seemed to be control panels everywhere with levers, switches and
dials. All of it quiet except for the slight buzzing of the overhead
lights. Judith threw a switch and the entire apparatus came to life. Red
and yellow lights illuminated and needles on dials moved to indicate life.
She was not sure why she did this. It seemed like the kind of dramatic
effect that Zaretski might put on to impress. 


He said it seemed like a bunch of hooey. What possed him to say this he did
not know, except that it was exactly what he felt. The whole place looked
like a bad movie set and the her idea seemed like to plot to a worse movie.
Judith took offence and just did not say anything. She got a hurt look on
her face, which just made things worse. Stanely reminded himself that this
was work and he was on a job. Admittedly he could not blame her as he had
just insulted her entire life's work. As she turned to walk away from him
he reached out to grab her arm. He held her and said listen. He wanted to
make things right. He had to make things right. She pulled away, but she
held him. He was frustrated, mostly with himself, for screwing this whole
thing up just when he was so close.

He pulled her back and she said, "Let go of me." "No" He said, "Let's just
talk about this." "No, I don't want to talk." She said as she dug her
finger nails into his arm and pulled harder and kicked him in the shin.  As
he moved to avoid being kicked, he tripped and fell letting go of her arm
and landing in the middle of the platform. Laying for a moment he looked up
at her, rubbing his head and trying to think of his next move. She looked
directly at him saying nothing and then with a smile on her face turned and
grabed a lever just outside the platform.  

NO: Zeretski comes in and hears them. He is in a booth above. They argue
and both express dobout about his work. He can't take this and pulls the
lever.

Suddenly there was a loud noise like a crack of thunder and they were awash
in a burst of light, momentarily frozen as if captured in an overexposed
photo. And then, just as suddenly, the light was gone.

As they left the lab arm in arm, all Stanely could think about was what he
was going to tell Iris.

END

latest work was on the ability to control the attraction between humans.
She described their work in modest detail and then asked Mueller if he
thought this was even possible. He said, "To be honest, it seems a bit far
fetched." "What makes you think so?" She asked.  "Well it seems that
emotions are somewhat outside the bounds of science." he said. "And from
what base of knowledge do you draw your understanding of the bounds of
science?" she asked suddenly feeling irritated and in mocking tone.  "Well,
just because I never went to college, doesn't mean I don't have common
sense." "Common sense" she said laughed, "What has common sense got to do
with anything?" Irratated, they each continued on, each blindly pursuing
their own point of view until they both stopped.  

For a moment they just looked at each other. He frustrated at what he
percieved as her arrogance and she embarrassed by losing control over her
feelings. "Listen I'm sorry" she said, "Maybe we should just go." As she
turned to walk toward the door. He reached out to stop her. "Wait" he said.
"I really want to stay and see more." "No. I think it is best we leave."
She said pulling away from him.

Not sure what to do, he held her arm, but before he could reason with her,
she dug her nails into his arm and pulled him forward. Surprised, he lost
his balance and fell against her. Reaching out to stop her own fall she
grabbed a control panel on the machine. Suddenly there was a loud noise
like a crack of thunder and they were awash in a burst of light,
momentarily frozen as if captured in an overexposed photo. And then, just
as suddenly, the light was gone.

As they left the lab and headed back toward the still bustling city night,
Mueller said, "I have something to confess." Without stopping she held his
and more tightly and said, "Let's save our confessions for later and go get
something to eat. I am suddenly feeling famished."




waited for Stanley outside a new restaurant
in mid-town. The intervening days had tempered her emotions to the point
that where her feelings had always been there was now a void. She felt
neither the chaotic emotions of human attraction nor the purely analytical
intensity with which she usually approached her work and life. She felt
nothing but the sense of a true void waiting to be filled, as if all the
combatants had momentarily retreated from the battle field leaving a sudden
and eerie silence. 

As she turned, she saw him walking toward her. Having only seen him once
before she was still etching his final image in her head, but he was still
handsome and smiling and thoughts of her own thoughts disappeared. They
greeted each other awkwardly. They paused. There was a moment when either
one could have reached out, a hand touching sleeve or shoulder but did not.
He opened the door leading her into the restaurant where he had reserved a
table. During the evening they talked and laughed.  

For weeks they dated until these emotions for which she could still not
find a name became less illusive and began to dominate her consciousness
camped out became less illusive more familiar but no less difficult to name
or fathom.  

One day, looking up from her microscope she rested her eyes and stared at
the wall. For the past hour, she had been counting red blood cells. The
count was part of an experiment that they had been running for the past
month. As her mind began to wonder, she turned to watch Zeretski fiddling
with an electronic circuit that was part of their latest experimental
apparatus.  As she watched him, she mentioned that she had recently met a
man she liked. Engrossed in his work, he responded with slight "hmmm", but
only enough to politely acknowledge that she had spoken and no more. She
paused still watching him and then added that the man was a great admirer
of Zeretski's work. Something seemed to catch his attention, most likely
the mention of his name and he turned and said "I'm sorry, what were you
saying."

She immediately found herself rambling about this person she had just met.
Zeretski turned from his work and listened politely and nodded
appropriately. When she got to the point of describing how Zeretski had
been one his childhood heroes and how much he wanted to met him, Zeretski
showed a sudden interest and asked, "Where did you say you met him?" She
described the bar. And then with a more intense curiosity "And why did he
say he wanted to meet me?" She again repeated his admiration for Zeretski
and described his childhood dream of becoming scientist but never having
the money to afford college. 

Zeretski's curiosity turned to suspicion. He asked her more questions about
what she knew about him which was not a lot and he began to sew doubts
about his motives. Like most scientists Zeretski was protective of his
work, but over the past few years, his suspicions began to border on
paranoia as they increased disproportionately with repect to any success in
his work.  Zeretski ended by saying, "You must promise me that he is not to
come here under any circumstances."

But Zeretski's questions did raise doubts. Who was this man and what did
she really know about him? More importantly, why her? Yes, this was what
puzzled her most. What did he see in her? These doubts came creeping out of
her subconscious. They offered to protect her from the danger she had felt
since it all started, a sense of danger for which they may have been wholly
responsible. 

For the next week and a half, Mueller tried to contact her, repeatedly
calling her apartment and leaving messages with the building's answering
service. When a week and half later she finally picked up the phone and
said, "Hello" he was taken a back. "I thought I might never reach you
again." he said. "And I thought you might never stop trying." She replied.
He half laughed not sure what to make of this. She apologized and said that
she was busy at work and getting home late each night, but agreed to meet
him the following Friday to see a show.

After the show, they walked together from the theater and talked. She felt
more relaxed with him than she had in their past encounters, but it was a
confidence that came with a sharper attention to detail and contrast.

He noticed that they seemed to be headed away from the crowds and into the
warehouse district where Zeretski had his lab. When they arrived at an
overtly nondescript entrance to a large wharehouse under a light that
dramatically flickered and buzzed as if perpetually about to blow out, she
asked "Would you like to come in and see the lab?"

She began
coming here over a year ago with a friend from high school, but a few
months ago her friend had moved away. She was actually relieved when her
friend moved away. The dinners had started to feel awkward. Very little
changed in either of thier lives and sitting there with not much to say
only served to emphasize this point.  But they continued to meet on the
pretext that repeating the same action would someday produced different
results, one of the definitions of insanity.
Judith and
her friend had usually sat at a table near the dance floor. Around them,
well dressed couples and friends, drank and laughed and danced, but were
never quite able to pull them into their revelry.
