By the end of the show, he was juggling six flaming batons. Then one by one
he placed them into stands forming a semi-circle around him until he was
throwing just a single baton high into the night sky. As the baton reached
its apex, he pointed both arms at it and struck a pose that looked like
nothing less than what one would expect of a person pretending to be a
wizard and said "Shazah!" and the baton disappeared into the blackness. As
the audience cheered and clapped, he gave an appropriately exaggerated bow
and then quickly made his way through the crowd gathering small bills and
change into his outstretched cap. 

At dinner that night, Seven described the performance to Adam, "This is the
third time I have watched his show, and every time I see him make the baton
disappear, I have the sense that it is..." "real magic?" Adam finished her
sentence.  "Can you explain how he does it?" asked Seven. "No, but I can't
explain just about any of the magic tricks that I have ever seen. That's
why they call it magic." "But they don't" said Seven. "They don't what?"
asked Adam. "They don't call it magic. Like you said, they call them magic
tricks or slights of hand, or illusions." "It seems odd that we call them
magicians, and yet what they do isn't called magic" 

They had dated briefly in college, but it was these sorts of conversations
that reminded Adam of why they were just friends. At the same time, it was
the way in which Seven was different from his other friends that he found
attractive and it was why he still looked forward to their occasional
dinners. He sometimes wondered what she saw in him, but was glad that she
saw something, at least, enough to enjoy his company once in a while.

Seven was born on the seventh day of the seventh month in the year 1987.
Her parents had planned to name her Nichole after her father's grandmother,
but on the day she was born, and in an uncharacteristic moment of
spontaneity, her mother suggested they name her Seven. Her suggestion
coincided with an equally uncharacteristic moment of acquiescence on the
part of her father that could most likely be attributed to the site of his
first newborn child, but it was a decision that Seven felt he subsequently
regretted calling her Nicky as much as he called her Seven. Her only
sibling, Josh was born five years later. 

After dinner, Seven walked back to her apartment alone. The sun had set and
the heat of the day had cooled to bearable. A cloud of steam hovered over
the street, the result of a cool afternoon rain colliding with warm July
pavement. The sidewalks were mostly empty as she made her way down a series
of side streets. A few cars drove by, their occupants obscured from view.
In the apartments she passed, she could see the blue glow of television
screens and imagined young people silently gathered around the box in the
modern human ritual.

She thought of her own blue screen in her pocket. She had gotten into the
habit of turning it off during dinner and now took it out to check if she
had any texts.

The first text was from her mother saying that they were taking Josh to see
the latest Harry Potter movie. The second was from Josh saying that he
couldn't believe he was going with Mom and Dad to see the latest Harry
Potter movie. The third was from Adam saying that he enjoyed dinner and
that he thought maybe text messages were magic because he could not explain
how they worked either. Seven smiled.

When she arrived at her apartment, the second floor of a triple decker, her
roommates Sara and Jenna were watching a movie. On the screen a well
dressed man and woman were engaged in what looked like a serious
conversation. She sat on the couch next to Sara. Without turning from the
screen, Sara said, "Some old guy called and left a message." Jenna snorted
a small laugh. "I couldn't hear him that well. I think maybe his tin can
needs a new string." At this, Jenna let out an actual laugh.

Seven knew that both Sara and Jenna knew perfectly well who had called, and
he was old. How old, Seven didn't know, but she figured somewhere in his
late sixties. She had tried to explain Tom to them, but to them he was just
an strange old man.

She had met Tom one morning a couple of weeks ago on the subway platform.
They stood apart both watching a musician perform. Everyone else lined the
edge of the platform waiting for the next subway train to arrive. As Tom
and Seven watched, more people entered the station, passing them on their
way to the platform.  A few paused, but no longer than the time it took to
fish a dollar from their pocket and toss it into the performer's guitar
case. At the end of the song, both Tom and Seven applauded. 

The musician smiled at each of them and bowed his head. The start of his
next song was drowned out by the sound of the arriving train. Seven and Tom
both turned to board the train and stood together near the door as the
train left the station. Tom looked around at the people in their car. Most
sat staring straight ahead, wires trailing from their ears and into their
pockets and bags. 

"Look at them" he said gesturing toward the passengers and in a voice that
made no attempt to protect the subjects of his disdain "Why couldn't they
have just stopped and listened...for just a moment?" "What other task was
so important?" he said continuing to address his reluctant audience. "Did
they not see him?" He then turned to Seven, "A fellow man stands and
performs his art for their benefit, asking nothing of them." 

Seven laughed both at what he said and the boldness of his manner. "They
might have felt obliged to contribute." she responded.

"But they did contribute." Tom complained loudly. "You saw them as they
walked by tossing a dollar at him as if he barely existed." He shook his
head.  "And then they continued on, turning their back to him." He paused
as an automated voice announced the next stop. "But you stood there, why?"

"I am not sure." said Seven. "I guess I saw you there first. Maybe I felt
sorry for him...maybe I felt sorry for you."

"But at least you felt a something." he said finally seeming satisfied.
They stood next to each other for a moment in their own thoughts.

"But what about the music?" he asked. "Did you enjoy it? Did you take any
pleasure in hearing him play?" 

"Sure, I enjoyed it." She responded. "He has a nice voice. I have seen him
there before, but this was the first time I stopped to really listen." She
thought for a moment. "I mean, maybe they just did not want to stop. Maybe
they just don't like his type of music.  Should we stop and listen to every
person who decides to perform in public?"

"They did not want. They did not want!" Tom repeated his voice resuming its
earlier volume. "Who cares what they did not want? A society of people
walking around not doing whatever 'they did not want' is not a society. It
is less than...less than a herd of sheep who at the very least appreciate
the importance of the herd."

Seven laughed again. "How do you know what sheep appreciate?" She said. Tom
smiled. "Besides," Seven added, "they were following the herd. It was us
who were breaking with convention."

"Look at them." he said again, turning away from her and toward the
passengers. "At least sheep graze on grass in all its natural glory and
imperfection. They just sit there suckling on a some...some facsimile of
the human experience.  Refined and sterilized, its only purpose to trigger
a pathetically saccharin response in their sad Pavlovian brains." 

"Well, I can't argue with you there." Seven laughed.

The train arrived at her stop. "Oh, I'm getting off here. My name is
Seven." She extended her hand hurriedly. "It was very nice to meet you."
"I'm Tom. Very nice to meet you as well." He bowed his head and handed her
a note that he had pulled from his bag.  She took the note and left. The
note turned out to be a flyer cut from one quarter of a standard sheet.  On
it was a copy of a hand-written invitation to a gathering at Wilson House
Coop for the following Saturday.  It advertised a potluck dinner with John
Stein reading from his new novel and a discussion to follow.  She had never
heard of John Stein, but she figured the number of authors she had never
heard of was close to infinite.

When she arrived at her office, Brian was waiting for her. Brain was her
boss and a total jackass, at least that is how Seven thought of him. She
had a hard time imagining anyone thinking any different except for maybe
his mother which she had only met once. She worked as an assistant buyer
for Artinos, a local chain of supermarkets. Artinos was owned by the Artino
family of which Brian was a member. 

Brian was not exactly just standing and waiting for her when she came in
the door, but he walked out of his office as soon as she arrived and she
suspected it was not a coincidence. He asked if she had reviewed the
proposal from VanNess for their new line of chips. Chips were important.
They came under the category of "Salty Foods", a major food category in the
grocery industry as measured by sales and dwarfed only by soda. These were
just some of the facts that made her job depressing.

"No. I looked at it yesterday, but will have a report for you by this
afternoon." She said, closing the distance between them but by only by a
few inches and only to accentuate their difference in height, a difference
in which she held the advantage. "And don't worry, I will break it down
into simple language that I suspect even you can understand" she thought.
She was honestly not sure why she disliked Brian so much. Her mother would
have called him a milksop.  She was not sure exactly what the term meant
but it was how her mother described Seven's first boyfriend, though only
after they broken up and only when pressed for a description. It had made
them both laugh at the time. 

When she got to her desk she immediately called Adam. "What do you want?"
he said. "Don't I even get a hello?" she responded. "Sorry." he said. But
he knew a call from Seven often meant trouble, particularly this early on a
workday morning. "What are you doing on Friday?" she asked. "On Friday
...well, let me see.." "Nothing" she cut him off. "Does this involve
magic?" he asked.  "Huh, good question..." she paused for serious
consideration and immediately Adam regretted asking the question. Finding
no purchase for this new line of thinking she responded "We are going to a
party." "Oh" he said and then "Do I want to go to a party?" "Yes" she
laughed. "It will be fun. Meet me at 7pm outside of Mikes in Franklin."

They found the house just outside of Franklin Square. The front yard looked
like it had been allowed to progress without human intervention for some
time, so they made their way down the drive toward the back of the house.
It was only at this point that Adam asked, "Do you actually know these
people?" "No" said Seven. "Oh wonderful" Adam sighed as he noticed lights
on on the first floor and heard the sounds of people enjoying themselves.

Entering the rear porch they could see a large stack of hand-painted
protest signs leaning upside down against a wall. Simple black lettering on
white background, their statements of discontent covering a variety of
themes. Battered and dirty, they appeared to be veterans of more than a few
campaigns. 

They entered a small kitchen, warm and busy with people. Seven held the
boxed pie that she had picked up at an Artinos on her way to the party. As
they made their way through the crowd, Adam leaned over to Seven and said,
"Just don't leave me alone."

In the living room there were more people standing and talking in tight
circles of twos and threes. Seven looked but could not find Tom among them.
She decided that she would just have to tell Tom that she brought the pie
and removed it from its packaging before placing on a table between
Tupperware containers of homemade salads and baked goods.

Adam, meanwhile filled a small plate with a couple of brownies and some
gingersnaps. He suggested that Seven do the same and then they make for the
exit. Ignoring him, Seven interrupted a conversation between two young men
and asked if either of them knew of someone named Tom adding that he had
given her the invitation. One of the men looked around the room saying,
"Well he should be here." Not spotting him either, he said "Well, I guess
he must be in his room. Do you know where it is?" He directed them to the
back stairs and said it was room number four on the second floor. 

Adam, resigned to seeing the evening through with Seven, followed her
upstairs. The doors on the second floor were mostly numbered. They stopped
in front of the one with a red number four painted neatly in the middle of
a green square. She knocked. There was no answer. She knocked again. "Who
is it?" came a distracted reply. "It's Seven" "Oh" he said "We met on the
train platform listening to music together." "Uh-Huh" he responded,
validating this new information but giving it no additional merit. "Can we
come?" she asked. "Sure. The door is open." 

Seven and Adam entered into a room that was only slightly larger than the
single bed in which Tom lay. The bed was on a tall platform neatly
constructed from lumber and metal braces. Beneath it sat a small desk and
chair.  There was just enough floor space for Seven and Adam to stand with
the door shut behind them. Tom lay staring at the wall, his child-like body
comfortably framed in the small bed. At the foot of his bed a sleepy cat
acknowledged their presence through eyes that opened and blinked a few
times and then went back to sleep.

"Tom. Hi." She said trying to get his attention. "This is Adam." "Hi Adam"
Tom said turning his gaze for a moment to acknowledge the introduction.
"What are you looking at?" asked Seven. "A picture." he answered. Seven
leaned over to a better vantage point. Adam followed her. She could see
that he was looking at a photograph hanging on the wall.  The black and
white photo was of a city street. She could make out people in the street
and what looked like a storefront.

"What's the picture of?" she asked.

Tom described the scene slowly and carefully as if he were recalling a
personal memory. "The two women are talking to the grocer. He owns the
store.  It is early on a Saturday and he is just opening up. You can see
all the fruit placed in wooden boxes out front. You can just make out a
sign saying cherries so its probably July. The prices are written by hand
in chalk on placards. Look the name of the store, written on the awning. It
is his name. The women come here every Saturday. They know the grocer well.
They are friends. They have walked there together as they do every Saturday
morning. The grocer wears a white button down shirt and tie under his
apron. Just through the door you can make out a young boy. He works for Mr.
Stanski, the owner.  He is a boy from the neighborhood. He is also dressed
in white button down shirt."

"In the street are lots of people walking in different directions. They are
not afraid to be in the street.  You can see two men walking together.
Both in white shirts and ties and jackets. No need to stand out. No need to
shout 'look at me. I'm special.' They belong to the greater good."

They all sat quiet for a moment looking at the photograph. Adam was aware
of the sounds of the party wafting up through the open window. It was a
joyful murmur out of which, here and there, a laugh or cheer could be
distinguished. 

"Where did you get this picture?" asked Seven "Do you know any of these
people?" "No, its just a picture I found in calendar. I think it was
published by the city's historical commission. There is a different picture
for each month." He pushed himself to sitting position. "Though my father
used to own a grocery store."

"Was it here in town?" asked Seven. "Yes. It was up on Central Ave. There
is a bank there now." "Did you work there as a kid?" asked Adam who was now
sitting on a bureau near the only window in the room. "Yeah. I mainly
stocked shelves, but when I got older he let me run the cash register. Then
the store closed."

Tom turned to Adam "What do you do for work?" "I work for DAK" "DAK
Technologies?" "Yes." What do you do there?" "I'm an engineer. I help
design drives, drives for electronic storage." Tom's face offered Adam no
cues of understanding, so he continued.  "So there is lots of data out
there now and it is all being created electronically, so corporations need
ways to store all this data efficiently. I help build the systems that make
this possible." "How does that work?" Tom asked. "The technology? Well it's
pretty complicated...I am not sure I even understand it." Adam chuckled.
"Do you understand it?" asked Tom. "Well...I understand the tiny part that
I work on." he admitted.

Tom nodded and leaned back against the wall behind his bed. "There was a
time when the world was no more complicated than a mechanical typewriter,
an impressive piece of machinery in its own right. Through a complex series
of linked levers, hinges and slides," he pantomimed, "it can type any
letter in lower and upper case, set tabs and line spacing and even control
the typing resistance in the keys. But this device, even in its most
advanced incarnation," He was now leaning forward again. "could still be
understood by any single human.  All you needed to do was follow the chain
of physical events from one end of the machine to the other. No slight of
hand. Nothing to be taken on faith."

"But now..." Tom continued. "These connections...these once physical and
tangible connections, a rope pulled, a bell rung, have been...are being
replaced by some..." he paused looking for right word, "some mysterious
fog...a fog that has rolled in from parts unknown. It seeps inside our
physical world. Now a key is pressed here and a letter appears there" he
pointed to no where in particular "and even the creators of the technology
can't tell us what happened in between. This...this fog, featureless and
dimensionless, it knows no bounds of distance or complexity. It enables
great things to happen but at what cost?" He leaned back against the wall.
"It sits murky between us." 

"But what about humans themselves?" Seven asked from beneath Tom's bed
where she leaned back in his chair with her feet on his desk. "They're
pretty murky." 

"Ah humans," said Tom "The hero of our story." His voice trailed off. "What
do you mean by that?" asked Seven. "I don't know." Tom shook his head.
"Sometimes, I just say things." Seven laughed.

"What about quantum mechanics, relativity or even the very nature of
atoms." Adam asked from his perch on the bureau where he sat with one leg
tucked up against his chest. "From what I learned in college even what we
used to understand as a simple physical connection is pretty murky."

"Is it?" asked Tom. "Well, yes according to Einstein and just about every
other physicist since him." "Yes, but what about before them?" asked Tom.
"What do you mean?"  "Was what they said true about the world before they
said it?" His arms had returned to their habit of conducting his thoughts.
"If the world is constructed from our understanding than prior to their
theories, what was the true nature of the world? If the prevailing opinion
is that the world is flat than is it not flat for all intents and
purposes?"

"No" said Adam visibly frustrated. "It is and was objectively not flat."

"But an argument that it was objectively not flat can only be made from a
future perspective and only a prevailing perspective at that. What future
perspective will challenge the prevailing truths of our time? It seems to
me that the prevailing truth of an era trumps any supposed objective truth
applied retroactively from some arbitrary moment in the future."

Adam rolled his eyes and shook his head saying. "I think that seems a
little far fetched." Seven laughed. "Our whole existence seems a little far
fetched." Tom added vaguely as he lay flat in his bed looking up at the
ceiling. Seven laughed again. Adam wondered how he had let himself get
goaded into this discussion at all. 

For a moment everyone sat quietly. Unnoticed, the day had crossed into
night uncompensated except for the dim light of the street filtering
through the window.

"Does anyone want a beer?" Adam asked hoping for a change of subject. "How
about wine." said Seven. "Okay wine." said Adam. "I am sure there is a
bottle downstairs." said Tom. Adam waited and then when no one volunteered
said, "Well, I don't feel comfortable going down there by myself."  "Don't
ask me. I'm too depressed." Tom added. "Okay Ill get it." Seven hopped off
her chair and was out the door.

When she returned both Adam and Tom were quiet. She poured a glass of wine
for each of them. She resumed her place on the chair and asked, "Why is
that picture so important to you?"

"Oh it is just one of many. It is the past that is important to me."
replied Tom. "So why is the past important?" asked Seven. "Because it is
where I desperately want to be...more than anything else." "Why?" asked
Adam. "I am not sure I even know." said Tom "It is not that I don't belong
here, it is just that I...I don't want to be here. I want to be there." He
pointed to the picture. "I want to be standing calmly and quietly in the
street with those people. I want to be talking with my hat and coat and
white shirt and tie about the small and uncomplicated events of the day." 

"Well it doesn't make much sense. I mean, it's impossible." said Adam
trying not to sound too unsympathetic. "I know, but I sometimes feel that
if I stare a picture long enough, if I bring it deeply into my
consciousness..." "You'll end up there." Seven finished his statement.
"Yes. I think so." said Tom.

Adam started to laugh, "Well, that's just crazy!" but when he realized
neither of them were laughing he stopped.

As they sat in the dark drinking wine, Seven told a story about how, when
she was young, she often pretended that she was a cowboy in the wild west,
but confessed that this desire was most likely fostered by a television
show she liked to watch.  Adam and even Tom followed suit with similar
stories of own childhood fantasies.

As Tom described a story about watching a circus with his mom, Seven
stopped him. "Wait" she said letting the chair she was leaning in land hard
on the floor. "I know someone who can help you." "What do you mean?" I know
someone who knows magic, who can help you get back to the past." "Oh come
on Seven." Tom started to laugh and then wondered if he was the only
remaining sober person in the room. "You know someone who knows magic?"
asked Tom. "Well I can't be certain."

A week later, Adam, Seven and Tom stood among an audience watching as
Zandor, or Zandor the Great as was printed on many of his props, performed
his last show of the evening. As his final act he began juggling, one than,
two, than three flaming batons. The batons stood in a stand in front of him
and each time he added a baton the audience cheered until he reached a
final count of eight. Each one followed the other straight up high into the
night sky. Slowly succumbing to the will of the earth, they finally
stopped, hung for a moment and then returned back down one after the other.

The three friends had distributed themselves evenly around the ring to
ensure multiple vantage points. They had agreed that at the final moment,
just before he made the last baton disappear, Tom and Adam would both focus
on the baton and Seven would keep her eyes on the magician.

Their plan was simple, wait till the end of his show and then confront him.
If he produced the missing baton than they would just admit that they were
mistaken and apologize for bothering him. They had not exactly agreed on
what they would do if he did not produce the baton. In fact, they had
barely discussed this eventuality either believing consciously or
subconsciously that it was too absurd to consider or 

As the final flaming baton hung far above the crowd perfectly balanced
between inertia and gravity, Zandor struck the pose as described by
Seven and the baton disappeared. Adam wondered if the baton had merely been
cleverly designed to lose its flame and thereby tricking the eye of the
viewer into believing in its disappearance, but even this did not explain
how the physical baton could have made its way back to earth completely
unnoticed.

As Zandor made his way through the slowly dispersing crowd, Adam and
Seven waited toward the back so that they would be one of the last people
that he approached.

"That was amazing." said Seven as she put two dollars into his hat. "Thank
you." he smiled. "This the forth time I have seen your show and I still
can't understand how you make that last baton disappear." "Well, its just
magic." he laughed and turned away to pick up and douse the still flaming
batons from the stands. Seven and Adam followed him. "I have a bet with my
boyfriend that it is real magic, though he thinks I am crazy." Zandor
turned back to them holding three of the batons that he had recovered.
"Well, your boyfriend wins. It's not real magic." he flashed a tired smile
and turned back to his task. Seven persisted, "I hate to be pushy, but it
is kind of a big bet. Could you just show us all eight batons? We would be
happy to help you clean up." 

Zandor stopped and looked at them both along with Tom who by this time was
now standing with them. "Who are you people?" he asked. "Come on." Adam
said holding Seven's arm, "Let's go.  He said it was not magic. This is
totally crazy." Ignoring Adam's tug she  "We are just friends, who are
curious...and we believe that, well that maybe there is real magic." Seven
responded.  "Well, you are all crazy." said Zandor.  "Are we any more crazy
than a magician trying to convince his audience that he does not do magic?"
said Tom. "Funny." said the magician nodding with a slight grin. "But I
really gotta go." he started to turn away again. "You can't show us eight
batons." Seven said less a challenge than as a statement of fact.
"Alright." he said turning back.  "Here are three." He held up the three
batons in his hand.  "And there are four" he pointed to the remaining ones
still in the stands.  He then walked over to a duffel bad which he unzipped
and brought out three more batons.  "If I am correct, that brings us to
ten. Are you satisfied now?" Seven had followed him and looked at the
batons from the bag closely.  "I am willing to accept that I am naive
enough about magic tricks that you could have somehow captured the last
baton in your zipped duffel bag, but none of these batons have ever been
used." she said comparing the immaculate ends of the ones in from the bag
with blackened ends of the ones he retrieved from the stands.  He looked at
them all for a moment, his eyes narrowed as if trying but failing to find a
focal point and then shook his head and said "Okay, you got me. I am a
magician. What can I say." 

"Oh come on said Adam
"That's amazing." said Tom "Wow." said Seven. "Can we ask you a favor?" "A
favor?" he responded feeling that he had already accommodated these three
enough. "What sort of favor?" he asked. "Can we go somewhere to talk about
it?" asked Seven. Zandor breathed deeply "Okay on the condition that you
help me clean up and you buy me dinner.  It is not like I am putting away
much for retirement out here." "Sure." said Seven.

The four sat together in the booth of a diner that had been in the square
since 1961. It was the only place where Tom would agree to eat and the only
restaurant left in the square that was more than fifteen years old. "So can
you perform other sorts of magic?" asked Seven. "You saw me, I make batons
disappear." Zandor said busy with his food which had just arrived. "Can you
make other things disappear?" asked Tom "Broccoli." said Zandor.
"Broccoli?" asked Seven. "Yeah, my mom used to serve me broccoli which I
hated." Zandor said starting in on the fries on his plate.  "Partially
because she was not a very good cook, but at some point she got on this
vegetable kick and she was pretty adamant that I finish everything on my
plate." he said continuing to work through his fries. "I hated her broccoli
so much. One day when I was about twelve, I was staring at the broccoli and
hating it so much and then it just disappeared." "Wow, how did you feel?"
asked Seven "How did I feel?" Zandor put down the fry he was holding and
leaned across the table.  "Have you ever made anything disappear? Have you
ever even seen anything disappear? Think about it. How would you feel? For
your whole life the world has behaved according to a specific set of rules,
boundaries that frame life and make it bearable and then suddenly you have
the power to make one of those boundaries is disappear." "Huh" Tom and
Seven nodded.

Earthquake?

"Well, we did just see something disappear..." Adam's voice trailed off as
the gravity of what he had just witnessed began to did sink in. Zandor felt
some satisfaction as he watched them coming to terms with consequences of
their little adventure which had been made at his expense.

"So why do you do it?" asked Adam. "I have to make a living and the
audience likes it. I think that somewhere inside they all know that
something has just happened that is not quite right...enough to be
intriguing but not so much that they...well, fall into an existential
crisis." he continued to consume everything on his plate as if he had not
eaten a full meal in a while. "It also the same routine every night. It
gives it a sense of being normal."

"But then why be a magician at all?" asked Seven "Yeah, that's a better
question.  Not sure. I was not very good a school, but I was pretty good a
juggling, so I guess I just played to my strengths."

"Does anyone else know about your magic?" asked Tom. "I told a former
girlfriend once. I actually demonstrated it for her." "What happened?" the
next morning, before I even got up she was gone. Didn't even leave a pair
of underwear. "Did you make her disappear?" laughed Seven.  "Yeah, funny."
he said and then in a mock serious tone that he secretly thought might just
scare them off "so you all better be careful!"

"Alright, so you fed me. Now what's the favor. I am not saying I will do
it." he raised a hand "I'm just curious." Tom, Seven and Adam all looked at
each other. Oddly enough now that they knew they were talking to a real
magician, there question seemed even more absurd. "Well" Seven said. "Tom
here wants to go back in time."

Zandor looked at Tom for moment and then sputtered a laugh, "Well, that
just ain't going to happen." He shook his head. "Why do you want to go back
in time anyway?" 

Before television and movies there was vaudville. People like yourself
could make living doing your performances. That sure ain't like today.

well more power to you, but you are going to have to find a more
powerful magician than me. are there others. Beats me. I have never met
one which is another thing I try not to think about too often" He looks
over "in an effort to minimize falls into the existential presipus"

How about we bring the past to the present? And we start by making that
television disappear. Why don't more people come to your show? because they
are watching TV. I am going to need more than dinner. there is a room
opening up at the coop and it is cheap. How cheap. For me cheap is free.
I am supposed to pay for his room. He is a magician. Together we can change
the world. This is a bargin. Yeah one TV at a time. 

The TV disappears. You do realize the problem? People are going to notice.
And it just does feel right to give everyone people I have never met before
an existential crisis. We could wait and come back later. NO do it now. We
could cause a distraction maybe remove a shelf of bottles or cause a tap to
explode. No I am not a vandal. 

They probably won't believe it or no one will believe them. The are also in
the middle of a game, so I feel kinda bad. Also, I don't know if I can do
it also there is the problem of crisis. All of these people could be
watching your show instead of some dumb television. Well my show is not on
right now, but I get the idea.

What about the place to live. For the past week, I have been on a friends
couch and he does not like it that much. Okay, we will try.

Zandor looked at the television. He concentrated with all his might. And
then he made no sound. And the television was gone. For a moment the just
looked at the spot where the television had been and said nothing. 

Shoplift at Artinos why, because it reminds me that I exist.



Make earth disappear!


********

escitalopram (lexapro)

The met together at an outdoor cafe and was one of the few places Tom would
agree to It has been around since 1967 which was its main saving grace. Are
you sure we want to go through with this? There is nothing to lose. It
could be embarrassing. Adam paid.


He saw a squirrel outside his window eating a pear. Squirrels did not have
to worry about their diet or what they ate. It was as if perfection was
staring at us every day and we refused to see it. It seemed so obvious that
he wondered if he was really the only person who did not see it. Maybe this
was all just a game waiting for him to realize.

I engage people I don't know. It is the only way that I can remember that I
exist. It was my therapists idea.


looking in mirror.

"Oh...uh...hmm." Came Tom's reply. "We watched the man playing guitar
together." she added. "Yes. I remember." Tom said as if this new
information was no more pertinent than the previous information. "Can we
come in?" she asked. There was a pause and then "Oh, I don't know." 

"You don't know?" Seven laughed. "It's generally not the sort of decision
that needs much contemplation." she added. There was no response from Tom.
After a few seconds, Seven looked at Adam, shrugged her shoulders and
turned to leave.

Then they heard what sounded like "Okay." "What?" Seven asked. "You can
come in." said Tom.

Do you want to marry him? Ha Ha. He doesn't watch television. Has he ever
seen television? I mean it is pretty great. Nah he was born before
television even existed...then realized this was probably true.

They boarded the train together and stood. The seats were all taken, but
the car was not very crowded for a weekday morning. As the train began to
leave the station, Tom addressed Seven. "You are quite good dancer." Seven
admitted that she had taken a few lessons in college, but did not consider
herself good. Tom reached out his hand again and asked, "Well, shall we?"
"I think we might need some music" Seven smiled. "True, but we can't
disappoint them." "Who?" "Why the people gathered here." his arm sweep to
indicate the passengers in their car. "They must be here for a reason." "I
think they are going to work." "Hmm, a clever pretense, but I suspect it is
something else." All of this at a volume that could easily be heard by the
passengers, but no one spoke. 

Well I hate to disappoint them. Who. Them. they seem to have gathered for a
reason. I think they are going to work. 

They must have gathered here for a reason. They are going to work. Ahh but
a pretense. clever pretense, but I think it is something else. You think
they are here to watch us dance? No I think they have gathered for a party. 

you see, they think I am going to ask them for money, and there would be
nothing wrong in that. But as it is, I sucking on their sugar. Sounds and
sites distilled to their crack cocaine.

A full compliment of humanity before us and no song

Seven and asked, "Are you feeling self conscious." "A little." she laughed.
"Well, don't worry" Tom said, sweeping his hand to indicate all the other
people in the car. "None of them to can see you." He leaned closer to her
and said, To them we are completely invisible. Why, I could run stark naked
up and down the car and no one would even notice. Seven laughed, well I
doubt that..but I am not daring you.

She is the daughter of powerful magic family. The magician has come to retrieve
her. He knows where she is. They live in the past when magic really existed.
They don't use modern technology like Amish they shun it religously. The
believe in religion and believe that it is the source of their powers. They
inhabit whole towns and look like everyone else. They are afraid she will
reveal their secrets. The old man    

***
Why did anyone who aspired to any sort of intellectual status feel guilty
about this box. They would deny watching it as if they honestly believed
this. The whole country had moved into a sense of denial as if it were an
epidemic. But had it always been this way? Did people always feel a
conflict between their actual lives and their perceived lives. Was modern
life just filled with more guilty pleasures. 

Even the dog ignores the television. The dogs life seems changed little
since his domestication. In the modern world his freedom is more restricted
but his interaction with the world remains the same.  He sleeps. He eats.
He sleeps without regard for modern light. Still finding his rythm of the
sun. Television sets have not effect on the dog. He rides in cars, but
without intention or car. It is not a great machine of conveyance, but
simply a place to be like any other. He is equally oblivious to his own
mortality yet still shares our instinct for survival. 


Why couldn't they just
stand there and show some respect for his work? Why did you stand there?"
Maybe they don;t want to listen. Don't want to? Don't want to? what does
want have to do with it?  What is there desire compared to the needs of the
community. What are they cows. Dulling following where ever they find grass
to eat. Even cows have more of a sense of community. I want candy, must eat
candy. It is sickening.

"Look at them." in way that made no attempt to hide is wonder and shaking
his head. "There is something they don't get. Something missing from their
experience or their desire for experience. Why don't the crave a sense of
connection between human beings? What is it they don't get? What has
happened to our sense of human connection? A man plays a song with all of
its imperfection, but it is not the song they have heard before. What is
wrong with them?  I don't understand.

"Look at them. They are terrified of even the slightest hint of human..."
he paused and turned to her, "disorder." For a moment neither of them
spoke. Self-consciously, Seven fingered the earbuds in her own pocket. 

He now turned to address her directly. "Do you know there was a time, when
being a musician was a viable career choice like being a plumber or an
electrician. In 1926, over 20 thousand musicians worked in movie theater
pits and now a musician is relegated to the role of beggar, performing only
for the sympathy of the public." 


