As we sat in the shade of the willow tree, Dad pointed out the different
types of boats on the river. None of the boats were very big. They were
mostly sail boats and mostly used as trainers by the local colleges, but
Dad described each one earnestly. He told us which ones were fast and why,
which ones could carry the most cargo and how many crew they each needed.

As he spoke, we paid close attention. Dad was still Dad, even for Michael
my older brother who was almost 15. Dad's arms seemed as strong as steel
and six foot frame seemed as tall as tall could be.

As he gathered us into a circle to describe his plan, I could sense
that something dangerous was about to happen and that there was no way
I could avoid it. Michael and Wendy never seemed scared. It was as if
they and Dad were made of the same material, but I was different. I
sometimes felt like I wasn't supposed to be there, but there was no
where else to go. 

The plan was to capture one of the sail boats, in particular one of
the 21-foot Sonars which Dad described as the most worthy boat on the
river. The only question was how to launch our attack. 

Not far to our left was a sandy spot where a few people were putting their
kayaks into the river. Dad decided that we should wait until one of the
two-person kayaks was left temporarily unattended and then quickly and
quietly commandeer it for our own.

When the moment came, Dad signaled to us move. By the time we reached the
sand we were running full speed. As arranged, I jumped on front and lay
low.  Michael took the front seat and Dad took the back. Wendy pushed hard
from the shore and leapt onto the rear of the boat and then lay low as well.
We were quickly underway with Dad and Michael paddling hard. 
   
The other people on the launch area seemed startled by our actions, but
made no attempt to stop us. By the time the couple noticed we had taken
their kayak, we were far out on the river. I could hear their shouts and
glanced back to see them waving their arms in a way that seemed indicate
they felt there must be some misunderstanding.

I could also see the intent faces of Wendy, Michael and Dad who were
looking past me and focused on a single sail boat that Dad had pointed out
as our target. The boat was coming toward us and moving fast in the strong
wind. It was on a slight tack cutting from right to left across our bow.
The two college students piloting the boat tried to make adjustments to
their course in order to avoid us, but we countered each of their moves.

As the students began to notice the seriousness of the situation, they
started to wave us off in an attempt to avoid a collision, but Micheal and
Dad just dug in harder making their intention clear to even the most naive
observer.

By this point, Wendy had moved forward of Dad and we were all three
standing. Wendy and Micheal both barefoot with pants rolled up past their
ankles. Wendy with dark streaks of mud or grease smeared on her face and
Michael with his T-shirt tied roughly about his head.  

A moment before collision, we jumped to their boat with feral screams and
teeth bared. The students dropped their lines and rudder and stood staring
as Wendy and Michael rushed toward them. They both put out their hands in a
half-hearted attempt to defend themselves, but their soft cafeteria-fed
bodies were no match for our sharp hungry frames wielding paddles and
savagery. Wendy and Michael slowly marched them backwards right off the
boat and into the water. They bobbed in their life jackets and in the wake
of the commotion and tried to make their way clear of the boat.

Dad grabbed the rudder and shouted commands. Wendy held the main sheet and
I the jib.  Instinctively we pulled the sails taught as if we had done this
all our lives. The boat swung round quickly facing back out toward the
river and the other boats, and was again underway in a strong wind.
Micheal stood on the bow and with some paper he had found and rolled into
spyglass and he pointed to our next target -- a boat of similar size that
we were no doubt intended to seize and loot. 

But a few moments later, he saw and pointed out a motorized launch leaving
the harbor headed our way. It seemed that word of our adventure had reached
the dock.  Dad immediately changed course and we headed for a stone wall
that bordered the river near a road bridge.  Although the motor boat was
moving fast, we were not far from the stone wall and a metal ladder that
was set into the stone wall leading up to the roadway above. As we
approached, we dropped the sails and Dad guided the boat quickly against
the ladder.

Dad held the ladder while we each scampered up. We left the boat rocking
aimlessly, its sails helplessly flapping the water. When we all reached the
top, Wendy and Michael quickly redressed themselves and we made our way
onto the sidewalk and down into the city streets with only a little
dampness on our clothing to betray our exploit. As we began to feel safe
from pursuit, we slowed our hurried pace and at first Wendy and then
Michael began to laugh, a deep and pure laugh and I laughed too. Dad smiled
but in a way that merely meant, "Job well done."  He kept us moving along
and as the day slowly turned to dusk we made our way home.

I don't remember mom, at least, that is what Michael and Wendy tell me.
They I say I was too young to remember, but I remember sitting at a table
in a kitchen and the sun coming through curtains that seemed so thin as to
barely keep out the light. I remember a woman standing and I remember a
face with dark hair and dark eyes and a smile. I remember her looking down
at me and I remember feeling safe. I never share this memory with Michael
and Wendy. It is mine and I won't let them take it.

The story goes that mom died when were young. After mom died, Dad moved us
to the city and we lived in an apartment which is where my real memories
began. Michael and I shared a room and Wendy had her own room. We lived on
the 34th floor and could look out over the city. Even though our building
was much taller, we could not imagine a better view than the one we had.
Between two buildings we could even see the water. We would spend hours
looking out the window at the city and making up stories about all the
people we saw. 

This was also a time when we still went to school. I liked school. Michael
and Wendy say they didn't, but that is not how I remember it. I remember
staying after school in Mr. Klein's room. Mr. Klein taught social studies.
He had a kind face, a head of white hair and always wore checked shirts. He
had a box filled with colored pencils and he let me use them to draw.
Sometimes we talked, but mostly I just drew.

Then we stopped going to school and shortly after that we moved. Michael
told us that Dad quit his job so we could no longer live in the apartment
building. I was sad to leave. All my memories of the apartment are happy
ones, real or imagined, I am not sure it makes a difference.

We moved to a neighborhood south of the center of the city where the
buildings were not as tall, so that you could see more of the sky. The
streets were filled with people and vehicles, but here they seemed to move
to at a different sort of rhythm, one that appeared less predictable,
consistent and familiar.

Our apartment was just above a small store or bodega as it was called in
Spanish. Dad told us that the neighborhood had changed hands a few times
over the past half century. The present residents were mostly Puerto Rican.
Dad said we were Yankees which was a kind of American and as much as Dad
ever said about where we were from.

Dad spoke Spanish with the natives as he called them. We were living in
their land, part of a patchwork that was now America, won over in battles
so subtle that no one knew they were being fought. He said it was better to
know a stranger than to fear them.

That evening after we returned home Dad went down to the bodega. He often
spent time talking to Mr. Santana who owned the store and our apartment.
The store was small and sold a variety of packaged food and assorted other
items such as string and paper and bags of toy soldiers. A few weeks
earlier, Mr. Santana had put a small television in his store and Dad could
not stop trying to convince him to get rid of it. Mr. Santana would tell
Dad that he just put it in for his customers. He said they liked to watch
the football matches. 

Dad hated television. He called it the idiot box. Sometimes if we were
walking in the evening and saw a television on in a house he would stop us
and point out how dead the people looked staring at the blue screen. We
would stand there watching them watch TV and he would say "They might as
well be dead and they don't even know it."

fixed stuff. Complained that if it weren't for him nothing would work
around here. He did not understand how people could live in a world they
could not fix.

Soon after we moved, Dad got a job at a small factory that manufactured
lace. The kind of lace that was found on curtains and women's clothing.
Something that we only saw on the samples at the factory. It was housed on
one floor of a large two-story brick building and had been in business for
over 70 years. It was owned by two old men who were brothers and had
remained throughout the neighborhood's cultural transitions. 

Dad got the job one afternoon when we were exploring our new neighborhood.
One of the old men was showing us around the factory floor which housed
more machines than people. We walked by a woman who was standing next to a
machine that was not working. She was bent over trying to pull out thread
that had gotten wrapped around a part of the machine where it was not
supposed to be wrapped. The old man complained that they used to have a
repair person on staff, but now it would take weeks to find someone who
could come to the factory and repair it.  

Without asking, Dad helped the woman remove the stuck thread and then began
to inspect the machine. He told the man he would have it repaired in an
hour. He told us to run along and he would met us back at home later. The
old man looked like he was not sure what to make of Dad, but seemed tired
of trying to make sense of the world and just walked us to the door and
said good bye.

As it turns out, it took Dad the whole afternoon to get the machine back up
and running as he had to manufacture a replacement part in the factory's
shop room which Dad said, looked like it had not been used in 20 years.
Regardless, the old man offered Dad a job.

Whenever we dropped by the factory, we would as often find Dad, not on the
factory floor, but in the office with the old men, trying to convince them
to make this or that improvement, but the old men had been doing things the
same way for too long to make this or that improvement. They always
listened to his pitch, but in the end usually decided against change.

One morning when we arrived we found Dad standing quietly on the factory
floor. When he saw us he raised his hand for us to stop and said, "Quiet.
Listen. What do you hear?" Not knowing what we were listening for but
wanting to provide an answer Micheal said, "Weaving machines?" "A machine
is not working properly. Can you tell which one?" He asked. "You need to
listen carefully."  

To me the factory always sounded like a thousand typewriters all
perpetually typing a thousand different manuscripts. But Dad heard
something different. He said, "Machines are designed by man and man can't
design something except by intention. Just as you could look at any object
of nature and know that it was damaged, even one you had never seen before.
God, like man, does not intentionally design imperfection. And imperfection
has a sound and a feel as clear a church bell."

"Listen." he said again and walked us to one of the lace making machines
and pointed out a small rod that had come lose on one end and was now
lazily and repetitively slapping a nearby strut every time the spindle to
which it was still attached made a rotation.

Our days were framed only by breakfast and dinner, which we  
Every morning we headed out for a new adventure. The only requirement was
that we brought home food and prepared dinner. We ate together every night.
Dad provided us with money each week, but it was never quite enough to
cover what we needed. It was understood that we needed to obtain food
however we could. We could not steal. Michael and Wendy were 
house stayed cleaned and the clock wound.

Most days we spent out on our own. Michael usually set the agenda. For
weeks we mapped the city's sewer system. We tried to reach the top of every
tall building. We built a tree fort in the city park. Rainy days, we often
spent in the library. The real adventures happened when Dad took us out
which was, for me, thankfully infrequent.

One spring Dad began building a garden on our roof. The garden did not look
like any garden we had seen before. He said it was special because it did
not require soil and could grow plants faster and larger than other
gardens. It was made from long pieces of gutter and pipe that he found or
retrieved from the factory. The gutter and pipe was used to hold the plants
which initially consisted of herbs and tomatoes in long rows. Together they
formed a maze made up of sections that crossed the entire roof and wound
its way down from where it began about eight feet up the side of a chimney
to a water tank sitting on the floor of the roof. The water flowed
continuously down the pipes until it reached the tank where it was pumped
back up to the top of the garden pipe system. In the tank of water were
fish which Dad said provided the nutrients that the plants needed to grow.

In order to get water on the roof, Dad had spliced a spigot into a water
pipe on the neighbor's roof and used a hose to reach our roof. When the
woman who owned the house next door saw what Dad had done she yelled at him
that he was stealing her water. Dad said that it was not much water and
that this he was creating this garden for the whole community. She said he
was crazy and should stop messing around on the roofs of buildings. She
never accepted his offerings of vegetables, but never shut off the water
either.

The garden produced tomatoes and peppers and squash and garlic and lettuce
and basil. It was more than we could eat and Dad often shared the extra
produce with neighbors in exchange for them listening to his pitch. Dad had
a vision of soil-less gardens on all the roofs of the neighborhood. He
would say, "We can feed the whole neighborhood with real food and not be
dependent on whatever comes in those metal cans and plastic bags that Aleso
passes off as food in his bodega." 

When he told this to Aleso, Aleso just laughed and said, "Do you eat just
what you grow on the roof?" Dad said, "No" but he said he had proved it was
possible. Aleso laughed, "then come back and talk to me when you can grow a
bag of potato chips." Dad particularly and loudly despised bags of chips an
other useless snacks. 

Most of the neighbors just thought Dad was crazy.  He would drag them up to
the roof to show him the garden and then march them over and up to their
own roofs to explain just how it would work. They would ask, "Why would I
want to put a garden on my roof when I can buy what I need from the store?"
One old man who lived alone in an apartment on the first floor and who
spoke no English seemed to appreciate Dad's work and would often visit and
help take care of the plants. In exchange, Dad let him take what he wanted.

Dad's vision for the neighborhood went far beyond just roof top gardens. At
night he worked on detailed plans for the neighborhood that including not
only roof top gardens but water collection so "we would not need to depend
on poised city water", an orchard in the middle of the street and dug
through the asphalt and systems for using waste to generate heat. He would
gather us around the table and walk us through his detailed maps some made
up of multiple letter sized sheets of paper taped together. 

Once after dinner he brought up Aleso to show him the plans. Aleso said it
sounded like what the communist rebels told the people in his village,
before they started killing them and stealing their food.

One evening we heard Dad and another voice shouting on the roof. We went up
and found Dad arguing with the neighbor's son who spoke English. The boy
looked about 20 years old and was holding a bag of vegetables that he had
collected from Dad's garden. Dad called him a thief and demanded that he
return the produce. The boy said that Dad was crazy and a thief since he
was stealing his their water to raise his plants.

They were standing close together, the boy a inch or so shorter than Dad.
Dad reached for the bag, but the boy pulled it out of his reach and pushed
Dad away with his other hand. Dad grabbed the boy's hand. The boy dropped
the bag and swung a punch at Dad's chest. Dad lunged forward and punched
the boy across the face. The boy fell back landing against roof vent and
rolled on his side. He slowly got up and wiped blood from his nose. He
shouted something at Dad in Spanish that we did not understand and walked
back to the stair entrance on his side of the roof. Dad watched him but did
not respond. Dad picked up the bag of produce and we all went down stairs.

That evening no one spoke much. Sometime after midnight I woke to the sound
of metal being smashed against metal and the whoops and cries of multiple
voices. The sound was coming from the roof. Michael was already awake. I
looked over at him as he lay awake in his bed. He did not return my look
and said nothing. The next morning the three of us went up on the roof and
found Dad's garden completely smashed. The pipes were all broken. The
vegetables and plants were crushed. The tank upside down and the fish dead
on the roof. Dad never went back on the roof after that evening and never
spoke about the incident.

A night later a rock was thrown through our window while we were eating
dinner. Michael and Wendy ran to the window, but could not see anyone. We
all looked back at Dad who was still sitting at the table. He looked at
Michael and said, "Make sure to clean up all the glass and place a piece of
cardboard over the broken section of window." He then got up to get his
coat and left. 

We did not see him again until the next morning at breakfast when he told
us that we should pack up our clothes and be ready to leave the apartment
by the time he returned that evening.

That day we quietly packed up everything we could carry with us. Wendy and
I had backpacks and Michael had a duffel bag to which he had sewed
shoulder straps. That evening we left the apartment without even saying
good bye to Mr. Santana. Dad said he would come back to get anything we
needed and could not carry with us.

We rode a bus for a about a 20 minutes to a new neighborhood. It resembled
the neighborhood where we had been living but many more of the houses were
boarded up and looked like they had not been lived in for years. Dad lead
us through the neighborhood. It was late. There were people on the street
but they mostly ignored us. Cars drove by. Some slowly with loud music
playing. Sometimes we heard someone shout and could not tell if they were
addressing us. Either way, we made no attempt to respond and kept moving
forward.

We walked for about 10 blocks until we came to a large abandoned house
surrounded by a tall iron fence. From the front gate, a short overgrown
walk led to a set of steps and a grand double door. The house looked down
on us and did seem happy to see us. It had a weary expression that said I
have lived alone for a long time and I am too tired for this.

Inside the front door was a foyer with larger rooms on the right and left
and directly ahead a set of stairs leading to the upper floors. All of the
windows on the first floor had been boarded up. The only light came from
single window on the second floor landing. From the window, a beam of
moonlight shown down to where we were standing and in it floated a storm of
dust particles disturbed by our sudden entry.  (Whirling in anticipation
after years of slumber)

Dad led us up the stairs and into the first room at the top of the stairs.
It had no furniture, but looked like it was probably originally a bedroom.
We put down our bags and Dad placed some newspaper on the floor. One window
provided light from the street. He brought some bread and cheese and water
from his bag and we sat and ate quietly. As we ate, Dad looked around and
you could see his mind working, making plans. We just followed his gaze and
tried to imagine what he was thinking.

After we finished, Dad said, "Okay, time to get some rest." Tired from the
long day, we each found a place on the floor to lay our heads. I was the
last to fall asleep that night. I lay awake too anxious to close my eyes
thinking over the journey that led us here and the journey that lay ahead
until finally sleep overcame me. 

The next morning we all rose early as the same window that gave us light
from the street that night was the same window through which unshaded the
morning sun came streaming. As we woke Dad was standing by the window
looking out. He turned to us and said, "Who needs to pee?" His question had
its intended effect. He added, "The bathroom is down the hall." But before
we were on our feet, he said, "But the toilet is of no use as this house
has no running water. It has no gas or electricity for that matter.  In
fact, it is completely disconnected from the civilized world." As he spoke,
we all hoped this would not be one of his long lectures. "So for the
moment, I placed two buckets in the bathroom. You can relieve yourself in
the empty bucket and then add some dirt from the other bucket.  Once you
are done, take the bucket into the backyard and bury the contents."

Returning with the bucket, we saw Dad leaning on the back porch railing and
smiling. "What do ya think?" He said. "She's a beaut ain't she?"
Overwhelmed by all that had happened in the past few days even Michael and
Wendy were still a bit stunned. Michael asked, "Whose house is this?" "Why
this is our house." said Dad.  "It was left here, abandoned by its former
occupants.  Unable to care for it, I guess. Needs a little work" He said
flicking a lose paint chip off a clapboard siding. "but sound as can be."
he patted the same clapboard. "Why this house has been standing here since
before the turn of the century." As we tried to absorb all this, Wendy
finally asked "Do you think they will want it back?" "Just let 'em try!"
Dad growled and winked at us and then the three of them, as if on cue,
shouted, "Hurrah!"

He took us on a tour of the yard noting areas of sun and shade for
planting. He dug his hand in the soil and let it fall through his fingers
describing its quality for growing vegetables and fruit. He pointed out the
future location of a water tank and windmill. We inspected the shed in the
back of the yard and found a few tools also abandoned by the owner who I
guess was unable to take care of them as well.

The morning's breakfast consisted of the remainder of the bread and cheese
from last night. We sat around the one table on the first floor. He told us
that we must first establish access to water which he described as the
hallmark of any civilization.

The day was spent establishing a zone on the first floor where pipes did
not leak and turning on water access from the street. By evening, we had
running water in the kitchen and first floor toilet. 

The next day Dad left for the factory, leaving us with instructions. Our
days were no longer spent traveling around the city, but working on our
house and yard. Over the next few weeks we repaired pipes, fixed windows,
found furniture from other abandoned houses. Dad with us whenever he was
not at the factory, often bringing home tools and materials from the
factory that we needed.

In addition to water, we established access to electricity and gas, but Dad
was clear that these were only to be used as necessary. The electricity
powered a small refrigerator and the gas would only be used to heat the
house on the coldest days. They would also only be temporary measures until
we could find alternative means.

As it turned out, we were unable to get the water heater working. This
meant that we had to improve the insulation. We found a wood stove but had
no wood. Showers were cold so we did not take them very often. It was
surprising how little anyone smelled. Washing clothes.

Our house was one of three houses on our block and our block was formed by
three streets making a triangle with each house facing out onto a different
street. An anomaly in the normal pattern of rows of houses. Dad said that
our house was built long before they 

Directly behind us lived an old man and his son and to his left lived two
boys and their mother. The boys looked close to Michael's age.

The old man was named Desmond. He was from Barbados, but had lived in
American for 30 years. Sometimes we visited his house when Dad was at the
factory. It was filled with things from his life, small things and large
things on shelves and windowsills as well as things that hung from his
walls and door frames. You could ask him about anything from a large brass
bell on the shelf behind his stove to a trophy with a figure of a runner on
top on the living room bookcase and he could tell you a story about how the
bell or trophy had found its way into his life.

There were pictures of his wife who had died ten years ago. There were
pictures of his children who lived on the other side of the country. And
there were pictures of his sisters and brothers and his mother and father at
weddings and parties. We could tell by the way the people were dressed
which pictures were older and Desmond would tell us who everyone was and
who was nice and who was funny and who liked to gossip.

That Fall Dad had laid out a plan for the garden which would occupy most of
the yard. He knew exactly where he wanted the tomatoes and garlic and
peppers and beans. With Dad away at the factory, we began tilling the
beds and planting bulbs. Desmond would watch us while we worked.  

Desmond had ideas and we had never seen dad listen to anyone
before. Desmond was soft and round and quick and had a way of talking to
Dad Desmond worked with us in 


Timeline:
Move in in summer
Fix add plumbing 
Repair house
Add gas for cooking and heat
No fridge?
Add power but just to the outside no lights
Insulate house for warmth
Find stove for future use.
getting into fall and cold
Clearing for garden beds
plans for future with water tanks and wood for fire
put up cans and ferments for winter
Old man helps with garden (hatian experience)
Adds his space to garden space.
Boys going over to Old man's house
Mother dies in fall boys move in with old man
Winter sets in
Spring build water tanks
Boys stay in school till summer
Winter: four drug heads break into boys house
Get removed
In spring build fence around compound
One of the drug heads returns with friend
Water tanks
Wood for cooking


That winter we used gas to heat our house. Early spring we began building
plant beds in the back of the house. We prepared the yard digging the soil.
The work felt good. 

Dad began to share his plans with the old man. We removed the fence between
our houses so that we could expand our garden.

There was always more than enough work to do and Dad hoped that the boys
next door would join us.

I could see the boys going off to school every morning. They would watch us
in the yard or working on the house. 




********************
He grew plants on the roof. His garden was organized. But the natives would
take things. He wanted to teach them new ways to live. He wanted to make
them into Yankees. He hated their televisions. :w

When he came into the bodega he saw a television set which was not there
when he last visited.  It was for his customers the owner said. He himself
rarely watched, but he could not take his eyes off the screen.

Why did anyone who aspired to any sort of intellectual status feel guilty
about this box. They would deny watching it as if they honestly believed
this. The whole country had moved into a sense of denial as if it were an
epidemic. But had it always been this way? Did people always feel a
conflict between their actual lives and their perceived lives. Was modern
life just filled with more guilty pleasures. 

Even the dog ignores the television. The dogs life seems changed little
since his domestication. In the modern world his freedom is more restricted
but his interaction with the world remains the same.  He sleeps. He eats.
He sleeps without regard for modern light. Still finding his rythm of the
sun. Television sets have not effect on the dog. He rides in cars, but
without intention or car. It is not a great machine of conveyance, but
simply a place to be like any other. He is equally oblivious to his own
mortality yet still shares our instinct for survival. 


We would attend lectures at a local university. The professors rarely
minded the five extra students in their class more than confrontation.
While Dad sometimes just listened, more often than not he would start
asking questions and move the sleepy students into debate. Once sitting in
the back of the room. The professor was engaged in a lecture about
Taylorism. The students sat some slumped in their chairs doodling in their
notebooks, some taking notes, some staring past the professor their mind
working through some unrelated problem. Without waiting for a pause in the
professors lecture, Dad asked "What are the benefits of efficiency?" The
professor stopped unused to interruption. He looked at Dad and seemed about
to ask his name, but at that point Dad rose from his seat, the professor,
responded, "Well they should be self evident."  "How efficient is this?" he
pointed around the room at the students "The seem hardly the most effective
way to deliver information." "Look here" he took a notebook from one of the
students "It appears your lecture has inspired a rather naughty picture. If
that was the intention..well" 

Dad took us to the tops of buildings at night. He would lecture us about
the history of the city pointing out buildings. and the stars.

Once he commandeered a bus and drove everyone home.

He redirected a fruit truck to the neighborhood and had us hand out boxes
of fruit to 

juggled fruit in a supermarket.

We entered a corporate feeding station. Where people wore name tags. He
hated name tags. We walked right into the kitchen. No one cared because
they did had no personal interest. They were just placed there and told to
do their job. The cook staff spoke spanish and Dad immediately began
talking to them. We ate soup and bread. It was late and Dad said they all
wanted to go home from a long day so he instructed us to help clean so
everyone could go home early.

Dad spent most of his days at the factory, but some days Dad would wake us
up early and off we would go with no obvious intention in mind, but knowing
that some sort of adventure was the likely outcome, commandeering a public
bus, freeing animals at the city zoo, inspiring a spontaneous student
revolt at a local university.  Usually these happened on a week day.  He
would say, "No one expects you on a week day."

And so we found ourselves at the zoo. He had never really talked about
zoos, but had used "zoo" or "animals in a cage" as a way of describing.  As
we methodically made our way through each exhibit, Dad would point the
different animals which he knew by species and type without reading the
public descriptions. He would describe the creatures native habitat
including floral, climate and geographic location.  He would tell us the
range of area commanded by each creature in its daily life and migration.
All in stark contrast to their present predicament. 

When we came to the primate exhibit, Michael made faces at the creatures
and Wendy and I laughed. As Dad was describing the life and habitat of
the gorilla to us he suddenly stopped. The gorilla was looking directly at
Dad and Dad was looking back at him and not speaking. The gorilla picked up
her baby and ran to one side of her pen and then the other, sat ate
something from the ground and looked back at Dad. She then left her
daughter and climbed up on a perch made of some sort of scaffolding
probably left over from construction. She looked back at Dad who just
stared. We did not know what Dad saw or why he stopped talking but we knew
enough not to ask. If Dad wanted to tell us something, he would tell us.

For the remainer of our visit Dad sent us on our way to explore while he
wandered silently around the zoo. We stayed for hours till the zoo closed
and were very late to leave watching the keepers close the gates and for
the night. He seemed particularly interested in the rituals of the closing
of the zoo.

That evening at home he began drawing a map of the zoo from memory on a
large sheet of paper that he had taken from. Each of the pens, stables and
houses were carefully drawn to scale. All of the paths and labeled. As I
watched him draw, I knew there was a reason behind his work.

During dinner we talked about the zoo and the animals. Wendy told a story
about a man who had dropped his camera into the crocodile pit. (look up zoo
stories) Dad just listened and smiled.

After dinner he brought us round the map to describe his plan. We were
going to free the gorilla and as many animals as we could reach. He gave no
reason for this adventure. Micheal and Wendy were immediately drawn to the
plan and did not seem to care for an explanation. I knew enough not to ask.

We would enter the zoo in the afternoon about one hour before closing. One
at a time we would enter the snack hut which was closed an hour before the
zoo closed and. The plan was to remain in sight of the snack hut and enter
in ones and twos when no one was looking. It was a weekday so the zoo would
not be that busy. Dad had noted that the back door to the hut remained
opened. 

Once inside we were to commander a large backhoe that was near a
construction area. Dad said these were easy to start and they often left
the keys in the ignition. The plan was to run a cable from the tractor to
the bars of the cage. The cable would be used to pull down the bars of the
cage. Once we had freed the gorillas we would move on to the other pens.
Dad had marked this all on his map. Indicating where we would be at any
point in time. He had made estimates for how long each would take.

The next day at 4pm we were at the zoo.jj

TREE HOUSE
CHAINSTORE
COLLEGE CLASS
TOPS OF BUILDINGS
SEWER SYSTEM
BASE BALL
BUS DRIVERS


---------------------------------
No sooner does the screen pop into her hand than some
nacent idea journey forth, still wet from birth, with a
no more instinct than that necessary for blinking and
breathing, comes forth screaming and shouting and
dying. 


We stood watching a girls soccer game. We had been on our way to the
store and I am not sure why we stopped.  It was just one of those
moments were we all seemed to have the same thought at once. The girls
on our side of the field were from the local high school. We didn't
say anything. Dad seemed to be studing the game very carefully. The
local team appeared to be losing. 

Dad then turned to us and said, the problem is that they are not using
their hands. You see, each team is trying to move the ball into the
other team's goals, but if they just used their hands it would be so
much easier. Suddenly the game appeared as silly as a sack race with
girls awkwardly trying to 

Just as the ball came close to where we were standing, Dad ran onto
the field grabbed the ball with his hands and then started running
toward the opposing team's goal. Both referres were blowing their
whistles and moving toward him. The girls just stopped playing and
stood staring at Dad as he ran past them making his way to the goal.
As he flung the ball in the goal, Michael and Wendy let out huge
cheers and I joined in with them.  


Every little trival thought that enters one's head is
immediately sent out into the universe, ideas barely
formed. The cost of transmission too easy. The barrier
too low. No need or time to sit with a thought and work
it out. No time to think at all. The cost of
transmission so small that the merest thought could be
flung into the universe. Television as insidious as it
was, was at least created with some effort. Some work
went into creating the scripts. Some thought went into
working with the actors, albeit for the masses. But we
had traded one medium curated for the masses with
another currated by the masses with no great
improvement. No need for sustained thought. No time for
ideas to be born and die before reaching maturity. No
time for maturity at all. Sustained thinking was no
longer necessary or even possible. 


One day in
school I was given an assignment to create a family tree. Our teacher, Mr.
Baskins showed an example of his own family tree with pictures of many of
his ancestors going back to his great grandparents. It was neatly laid out
with paths that all funneled down to him. He had used a baby picture for
himself which the students thought was funny

I don't recall any close friends from school. I do recall that most of them
had mothers and fathers and some talked about aunts and uncles and
grandparents. These were not familiar to me. 
p
Every second in this factory thousands of mechanical parts are
intentionally coming together 

Every part of a mechanical device is designed to work in coordination. The
spindle drives the rod which turns the disk which moves the piston. Each
process of revolving, sliding, swinging, lifting, catching each produce
their own vibrations.  Each motion transfers its motion to the next. Each
motion produces an even rhythm. The rhythm is intentional. There is a
difference between a machine that goes clack, clack, clack Every time two
mechanical parts meet there is vibration. But man can't design a perfect
machine so he designs 

The teeth against teeth or rollers against slide were either right or
wrong. Each one sounds clear and intentional. 


