A man is sitting at a bench with an electronic device in his hand. The device
is attached to his ear through a single cord. He sits, head cocked listening
intently as if he is getting messages from an alien planet. If that were
possible, I would buy one of those devices.

My dad is dead. Sometimes when I pick up the phone and hear a faint, click,
click, I think it is my Dad.

A motorcycle rider sits and waits for a bus to New Hampshire. I know he is a
motorcycle rider because it says so on his jacket. He sits, hunched, hands
clasped and resting on long legs staring at the floor. Maybe his motorcycle is
broken. Maybe he is afraid to ride his motorcycle. Maybe his mommy took his
motorcycle away because he was a bad boy. Maybe he will make motorcycle noises
in his seat all the way to New Hampshire.

I am sitting on a city bus. The bus is filled with people of many different
shapes and sizes. I did not get to choose them. If I had, I might have chosen
differently.

I am sitting on a city bus. The bus is filled with people of many different
shapes and sizes. Next to the bus is a woman in a car. On the bumper of her car
is the word diversity. There are no words on the bumper of the bus. I consider
asking the passengers to vote on what we should put there, but we would
probably never agree.

A family of hippies emerge from Starbucks. I know they are hippies because the
father has a beard and a pony tail. The mother wears a long skirt and sandals.
Their two kids are in tie died shirts. For a moment, I expect them to break
into a run, pursued by the store manager as they make away with their stolen
capucinos and almond biscotti sticking it to the Man. Instead they hop into
their minivan and drive away.

As the bus leaves the station, a dozen television screens begin playing a
movie. The driver instructs the passengers to please limit their cell phone
conversations. I suspect so as not to interfer with the movie. It seems they
are delivering a very important message to the passengers, but mostly what I
see are two people trying to shoot each other.  Looking out the window I see an
endless line of trees. The trees are not trying to shoot each other, so they
have a difficult time competing for the passengers attention. I am hoping that
someone's cell phone will ring.

