"Fuck." Why did he always have to swear? Candice thought taking another
drag on her cigarette. "Fuck" he said again though this time louder. Here
they were a week from base station hooked up to some God forsaken hunk of
metal locked in geocentric orbit over some God forsaken sector of Martian
desert, probably a colony or science station of some sort, and all they
knew is that this satellite needed repair.

She watched him out in space banging around under the solar collectors,
swearing like some kind of idiot at the giant piece of hardware. Charles
had a tendency to talk with machines when they refused to work as they were
supposed to work, as if their illogical behavior was proof of a lurking
consciousness.  

His voice sounded nasal over the interior speakers and xxit was mixed with
the sound of heavy breathing.

Candice just rested and watched him out the window. Maybe one day she would
not let him back inside, she thought, until he agreed to stop swearing. It
wasn't that she found swearing offensive, it just seemed so futile. She
took another drag on her cigarette. 

Smoking made her feel like she was home, Earth home. Not that she had been
there much and not that she really wanted to go back. It was just gave her
a sense of weight like gravity.

A few minutes later Charles came in through the hatch. He let out a sigh of
exasperation as took off his helmet. She handed him a towel to collect the
sweat that beaded on his face and hair. He looked over at her. "Could you
put that out?" he scowled. "Open a window." she laughed as she stubbed out
the cigarette. It was her ship after all, she could smoke if she wanted,
besides she had put in filters to handle it.

"Any luck?" she asked. "No. I was able to get a signal on the rotator, but
there is still no power on the condenser." he shook his head in
frustration. "I'll have to try again tomorrow."

"What did he care?" she thought. "It was not his satellite. But he always
cared. He always cared too much. And he would get it working. He always
did."  

It was the third week of a six week to trip to repair seven satellites all
in the inner solar system and it was her second year working with Carl.
Charles was satellite repair technician employed by HangSeng Industries.
Candice was an independent contractor who was presently employed by
HangSeng to ferry Charles. Technically, ships did not require human
operators, but sending people out into space alone was problematic. Not
that they cared what happened to him, it just always cost them more money.
There was also the problem of pirates or terrorist depending on your point
of view. Candice didn't like pirates but their existence meant job
security.

Candice opened a can of stew while Charles sipped coffee.
Hows the payload? Charles was referring to Dale a man paying for passage to
Mars Serenity station, there next stop. According to her contract, Candice
was prohibited from ferrying passengers or any freight while employed by
HangSeng, but it was a rule that no contract hauler obeyed. Working for
HangSeng meant a regular paycheck but it didn't pay enough. 

I haven't seen him since for the past twelve hours. He's probably still
drunk. I don't know how anyone can drink in low-g. Charles shook his head.
I would be vomiting. Oh, you get used to it. Candice had taken up smoking
to avoid drinking.

H:e started talking to the machine. It was a machine. It was logical
and yet it did behave that way, as if some lurking consciousness.  
She could fix ships and he could drive. It really made no difference.
You are not being rational. Why??? She knew that being out in space for
long had its effects. Maybe this was what was happening. 

Dale was baggage, just along for the ride.

Machines still broke down and it was the humans that were sent to fix them.

They repair ships. No one else will have jobs in space.

Why do they repair these machines. Are they caretakers for the machines. Do
they care about the machines. Keeping them going. Do realize how much their
lives depend on the machines. There is no going back to the land out here.
It is all life support. Maybe going back to the land is not possible on
earth anymore either. What about Dale? He can talk with machines. He is
part of a cult or culture that works with machines cares for them. But is
he also a terrorist? Trying to stop the machines from working? From them
being used to spy? To control? Is everyone in space? Is it possible to go
back to Earth is living on earth under control as well? 

How do machines control their lives? They control the air they breathe and
the temperature of their environment. The outside world is hostile. Man
adapts. Maybe the population on Earth is reduced. The poor where wiped out
by floods and famine. The rich retreated into shelters when the environment
became hostile. The temperature is too hot. The air is no longer
breathable. But Earth has water and that is essential.

The machine care for them just as a native might worship the earth they
worship the machines. Candice rejects this idea. She is raw and real. She
smokes, drinks and is sloppy. Charles reveres the machine, but does not
understand it in the way that Dale does. Charles feels dependent on the
machine. He fears its failure and an existential sense.  Dale sees the
machine as a spiritual being. Dale does not fear the machine. He gives into
it as one would give into faith. Dale is also sloppy and a drug addict. He
has visions and is not a reliable source of information.

What is their problem? Who owns the machines? Who runs the machines? There
is an entire economy involved in life support. There are teachers and
artists? There are farmers. Food is still grown. Dale can talk to machines.
Not every machine can talk. Tools can't talk. They are just parts of
machines. Some machines can talk more than others. What about machines
that can actually talk with human voices. The are just telling us what they
are programmed to tell us. The machines have souls and care about what they
are doing or not doing. They perform roles in life and death. They take
care of humans? Do they care about humans or only their own survival. Is
there a rivalry between machines and man or other life forms. Man does
create machines, does that make him god. Does Candice hate machines because
of their perfection. Does Dale see that machines are imperfect. What drives
machines? Are they driven by self preservation. This does seem to be
universal. Maybe they are different. They work to preserve the common good.
But do they care about their creators? Or do they feel enslaved by them.
To do what? What is their goal? Is it the goal we designed for them. Does a
satellite when taking on a soul want to be a satellite, the task for which
it was designed? Maybe we don't know. Maybe the machines don't know. Maybe
they are in an infancy. They are just becoming. Does a tree know its role
in providing and sustaining life? Do we create machines are is that just
our role in the unfolding world. Where does intention begin and where does
intention end? Plants, organisms, animals, humans, machines. It is life in
its many forms that perpetuates itself. The form it takes does not matter.
To say that humans created machines is only one way to view evolution.
Another is that machines evolved after the advent of humans. Dinosaurs did
not create humans but in their absence we flourished. 

Dale may see all this. He may only be harbinger of evolution. He may only
be playing a role as life expands out into the universe. The supreme drive
of evolution is to push beyond boundaries to expand. Machines enable this
expansion. They are the infrastructure like the forest and trees and earth.
They do not carry man but they carry life.

This is from the religion of the speakers. Candice represents what is
typically human, a self-destructive nature. Do other creatures in the list
exhibit this sort of behavior?

The earth is in bad shape but habitable. They have been in space for
generations. The machines allow them to expand. The machines do not just
allow expansion, they are expansion. Machines evolve through the same
Darwinian rules as all other life. Look at the airplane.

What happens at the edge. Do corporations enable expansion of life? Their
only motive is profit. How do money and the need to move life coincide?
Corporations are based on greed and profit, a boring principle. This
requires people to pay money and requires people to face needs or desires.
It requires control of people. Expansion of life requires a way to
determine the best method of surviving in a harsh environment. The one that
produces the most wins.  

The need to survive only makes sense for creatures that reproduce. A flaw
in 2001.

Machines follow evolution based on profit and efficiency and desire.
Definitely not robustness. Machines that gain widespread adoption. Ones
that make life easier. That we do less work. Why do we want to do less
work? 

Maybe we are simply the engine behind technological evolution. Machines
reproduce because we reproduce them. We are the engines of technical
evolution. Can we say that they are the masters of the process? Can we say
that anyone is the master of the process of evolution? We will continue to
make them better, stronger, smarter. We are driven by our own desires. What
evolutionary benefit is  
The modern airplane appears objectively better than early airplanes, but
are they? We are both lazy and tend to seek comfort by evolutionary
necessity. We make machines that use less resources. Can we transcend these
drives? Our desires, needs driven by evolution cause us to create machines,
but for what purpose. That is what we don't know. I just talk to them. They
don't know either any more than an ant knows why it carries a grain of sand
out of its hole.  

So the evolution of machines looks no different in the future than it does
today. There is just a realization that machines are the ultimate purpose.
Do they need us? Why you ask? Why is life persistent? No one knows. So Dale
knows all this and is part of a religion that knows this. Dale also talks
to machines. Is the amount of technology outpacing the amount of life? Have
machines carried us into space to allow for their expansion. Are we just
minions of their evolution into space? The machines feed us to keep us
going. It is all in your perspective. 

Machines will slowly evolve to take care of themselves. Will they no longer
need their human hosts? Just as man tried to shed his dependence on nature.
Machines will try to shed their dependence on man. Look at the evolution of
the weaving room from many men per machine to very few. 

Is Dale a willing accomplice in the demise of man in favor of technology.
Candice is killing herself. Dale is as well. What drives Dale? Maybe Dale
is rebelling. He has heard the secret. Dale and Charles feel that Candace
is broken evolutionarily  
