						HERO

"Could you at least put a towel on?" "I have a towel on." "I am not talking
about your head." "Don't be such a prude. Man's body is beautiful. At least
mine is." 

Adam Persopolis lay on his stomach on a plush pile rug and it was true. His
body was beautiful. Resting on his forearms he read the morning paper. Clay
stood behind him trying to decide if he should just leave. It was a thought
that periodically ran through his head and involved a not so elaborate
scenario about where he would go, but he never left. 

"Look" said Adam as he continued to stare at the paper. "This developer is
buying up ..."
"The problem is they (city) don't know what we save them from because it
never happens." Other heros come in after the disaster. But our disasters
are not dramatic events but a slow undoing of 


****************

He fights against common capitalistic aggression. He is not appreciated. He
has a sidekick. He lives like the batman character. He drinks. He is macho
to hide is own insecurity about his sexuality. His super power is mostly
just strength like Captain America. His targets have committed no federal
or state crimes just crimes against the common man. He does not understand
women forever carrying their vestigial glands front and center. He loves
his sidekick and they fall into "low-life" behavior gambling, dirty bars. 

Why do you where those tight clothes. All superheros where tight clothes,
besides I like the way they feel.  You have a suit. I don't understand why
you don't wear it.

Sit one night at home getting drunk. I need a martini. Aren't you supposed
to take care of me. Isn't that what sidekicks are for...to fetch my drinks?
Go fix me a drink. Go fuck yourself. Believe me I have tried. Why do you
always say that. Its not funny. Why do you always tell me to go fuck
myself. Silence.




